---
reading: ames-marrow-2.16
page: 297
pdf_page: 309
sortable_pagination_id: 309
---

religious worship which is commanded in the first Table, but only of Iustice or of that dutie that is due to our neighbour which is contained in the second Table : whence also those arguments taken from the nature of the thing, doe exclude all adoration of the Creatures. *Acts 10.26.* Rise, for I my selfe also am a man : *Revel.22.9.* See thou doe it not, for I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren the Prophets, and of those that keepe the words of this Booke, worship God. *Rev.22. 9.*

5. But in this number and name, every one is by proportion included even in respect of himselfe ; for every one is first a neighbour to himselfe, then to others. Whence also it is that there is no singular precept given whereby a man may be ordered toward himselfe : for whilest he is rightly ordered toward God, and toward his neighbour, he is also ordered toward himselfe ; but with this difference, that that disposition whereby any is made fit to performe his duty to God and his neighbour, pertaines to his perfection ; but he must also performe the same duties both to his neighbour and himselfe, (but not to God, and himselfe.)

6. But because that manner whereby duties are to be exercised toward our neighbour, is with respect and affection to their good ; hence this same vertue is called charity toward our neighbour. *Mat.22.29. Marc 12.31.*

7. In this charity there is alwayes love of union, of well-pleasednesse and good will, as in that love which is toward God ; but there is also added oft times the consideration of mercy, when the misery of our neighbour is respected, which hath no place in our charity toward God.

8. But this band of Iustice and affection of Charity ought alwayes to flow, and be derived from Religion toward God ; for seeing Religion gives the chiefe honour to God, it causeth that obedience be given to his will in those things also which doe immediatly respect the Creatures ; whence all they who neglect their duty towards men, are denied to honour God, but rather doe contemne him. *1 Sam.2.30.* Also charity towards God which is contained in Religion, doth of its own nature produce charity towards men, as they are in some sort partakers of the Image of God : whence
