---
reading: ames-marrow-2.16
page: 298
pdf_page: 310
sortable_pagination_id: 310
---

whence also we are said to love God in men, and men in God, which is one reason of that phrase, beloved in the Lord.

9. Hence nothing is properly due to man which is contrary to Religion. *Acts* 4 19 & 5.29. Whether it be right in the sight of God to obey you rather then God judge yee: we must obey God rather then men.

10. Hence also the truth of Religion cannot consist with the neglect of Justice, and Charity toward our neighbour. *James* 1. 27. Religious worship, pure and undefiled before God and the Father, is this, to visit the fatherless, and widowes in affliction. 1 *John* 4. 20. 21. If any one say I love God, and hate his brother, he is a lyar. This Commandement have wee from God, that he that loveth God, love his brother also.

11. Hence finally religion is best proved, and tried by Justice, according to the frequent use of the Scripture, which argument notwithstanding doth serve much more certainly for negation, then affirmation, if it be understood of the outward workes and offices of Justice: because such workes of Justice may be sometime present, where true religion is wanting; but if true religion be present, they cannot be wholly absent.

12. By the same reason also unjust workes doe more argue a man to be ungodly, then those which are just doe argue a godly man: whence the workes of the flesh are said to be manifest. *Gal.* 5.19. Which is not affirmed of the fruits of the spirit, *Verse* 12.

13. The order of this charity is this, that God is first and chiefly to be loved by charity, and so is as it were the formall reason of this charity toward our neighbour: next after God we are bound to love our selves, namely with that charity which respects true blessednesse; for loving God himselfe with love of union, we love our selves immediately with that chiefe charity which respects our spirituall blessednesse: but we ought to love others whom we would have partakers of the same good with us, secondarily as it were; moreover others may be deprived of this blessednesse without our fault, but we our selves cannot; therefore we are more bound to will and
