---
reading: ames-marrow-2.16
page: 299
pdf_page: 311
sortable_pagination_id: 311
---

14. Hence it is that the love of our selves hath the force of a rule or measure unto the love of others : Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thy selfe.

15. Hence it is never lawfull to commit any sin for anothers sake, although our offence may seeme small, and to be a chiefe good, which we should seeke to another : for he that wittingly and willingly sinneth hateth his own soule. *Pro. 8.36. & 29.24.* He that sinneth against me, offereth violence to his own soule. He that partaketh with a thiefe, hateth himselfe, and he that hearing cursing declareth it not.

16. Among other men none indeed ought wholy to be removed from the embracing of our charity, who is capable of blessednesse ; for if we love God above all things, no enmities will so far prevaile with us, but we may love our very enemies for God. *Mat. 5.39. Rom. 12.17. 1 Thess. 5.15. 1 Pet. 3.9.*

17. But among men those that are more to be loved then others, that come neerer to God, and in God to our selves. *Galatians 6.10.* Let us doe good to all, but especially to the houshold of Faith.

18. But because they that believe, are more neere both to God, and to us also spiritually, then those who doe not as yet believe, therefore also are they more to bee beloved.

19. Yet this is so to be understood, that it be referred to the time present and the immediat affection ; for we may will the same good to some other as much or more in time to come, the grace of God and faith comming between ; in which sense that affection of the Apostle concerning the *Israelites* is to be taken. *Rom. 9.3.*

20. If among those that are to be beloved there be no apparent disparity neither in respect of God, nor in respect of us, then they are equally to be beloved.

21. But if any apparent disparity appeare, either in their neerenesse to God or to our selves, then he who exceeds in any neerenesse, is more to be beloved ; that is, when we cannot exercise the act of our love alike toward all, we are more bound to place our love on those whom God hath by some speciall neerenesse or communion commended to us, then on
