---
reading: ames-marrow-2.16
page: 300
pdf_page: 312
sortable_pagination_id: 312
---

others. Therfore although we ought equally to will the salvation of others, yet the exercise and care of this wil is chiefly due to those, that are neere joyned to us in some speciall respect; as a Souldier although he ought to wish well to all his fellow Souldiers, yet he is bound to take most care of those who are of the same band, and are next adjoyned in the same Ranke. This appeares in that example of *Paul*, who did more fervently desire the conversion of the *Israelites* then of other Nations; of which affection he gives this one reason, because they were his brethren, and kindred according to the flesh. *Rom.* 9.3.

22. Yet in this prerogative of charity we must wish to those that are neere unto us, rather those good things which pertaine to that conjunction, whereby they come neere unto us; as spirituall good things to those who are most spiritually joyned to us, and naturall good things to those with whom we have a naturall neerenesse; not that those kind of good things are in our desires to be separated one from another, but because the very kind of conjunction, is as it were a beck from God, whereby he stirs us up to bestow our paines chiefly in this or that kind.

23. Hence it followes, first. That kindred in bloud, *Ceteris paribus* other things answerable, are more to be beloved then strangers, in those things which pertaine to the good things of this life: and among those that are neere in bloud, those that are the neerest to be most loved.

24. Secondly, that some speciall friend is more to be beloved, then an ordinary kinsman in bloud, at least in those things, which pertaine to the common duties of this life, because friendship may be such that it may make a neerer conjunction then consanguinity it selfe considered by it selfe. *Prov.* 18.24. For a friend is neerer then a brother.

25. Thirdly, that parents are to be loved more then any friend, because the neernessse of parents is greater then of friends as touching the communicating of those things which are most intimate to us. 1 *Tim.* 5.4. If any widow have children or nephewes, let them learne first to shew piety towards their own house, and to recompence their parents: for this is honest and acceptable in the sight of God.
