---
reading: ames-marrow-2.16
page: 301
pdf_page: 313
sortable_pagination_id: 313
---

26. Fourthly, that parents are more to be loved then children, in those good things which ought to redound from the effect to the cause, as Honour, Esteeme, Reverence, Thankfulnesse and the like. But that children are more to be loved then parents in those things which are derived from the cause to the effect; of which kind are, Maintenance, Promotion, Providence and the like.

27. Fifthly, that husbands and wives are to be loved more then parents or children, in those things which pertaine to society and union of this life; for that is the greatest neerenesse, whereof it is said, they shall be one flesh. *Gen. 2.24.* Therefore shall a man leave his Father, and Mother, and shall cleave to his Wife, and they shall be one flesh. *Matth. 19. 5.*

28. Sixthly, that they that have deserved well of us are more to be beloved then others, and among those, such as have communicated spirituall good things to us are most to be beloved: let him that is taught in the word communicate to him that taught him, all good things, *Gal. 6.6.*

29. Seventhly, that a community or whole society is more to be beloved then any member of it, because the conjunction of a part with the whole is greater then with another part; and therefore, that a prince whose life and safety is necessary or most profitable for the common good, is more to be beloved then any or divers of the common people, nay more then our selves in temporall things. *2 Sam. 21.17.* Thou shalt goe no more with us to battell, least thou quench the light of Israel. *Lament. 4.20.*

30. There be two Acts of charity toward our neighbour: Prayer for his good, and working of it. *Mat. 5.44.* Love your enemies, blesse them that curse you, doe good to them that hate you, and pray for them which hurt you and persecute you.

31. This Prayer as it respects the honour of God, pertaines to religion in the first Table: but as it respects the good of our neighbour, it pertaines to Justice, and Charity toward our neighbour in the second Table.

32. We must pray for all those good things, which religion commands us to wish to him, whether they be spirituall, or corporall.

33. In
