---
reading: ames-marrow-2.16
page: 302
pdf_page: 314
sortable_pagination_id: 314
---

33. In this praying is included not only petition, but also giving of thankes, whereby we praise God for the good things which he hath bestowed on our neighbours. *Romans* 1. 8,9,10.

34. To this praying is opposed that imprecation which tends to the hurt of our neighbour, which is called cursing.

35. Working of good toward our neighbour is an endeavour, concerning him, tending to his good; whence also it is called a good deed. *Matthew* 5. 44. And love in deed 1 *John* 3.18.

36. This working is distinguished from praying; because although prayer be also an endeavour tending to the good of our neighbour, yet it is not immediatly exercised about our neighbour, but it is directed unto God.

37. Yet unto this working those endeavours must be referred which are exercised about other Creatures for our neighbours sake; for then there is an efficiency in our actions of the same reason, as if it were exercised immediatly about our neighbour himselfe.

38. Now this endeavour is either, by morall perswading, or reall effecting.

39. An indeavour of morall perswasion is in propounding of good to be performed with arguments by which he may be stirred up to it.

40. And this is by admonition, and good example.

41. This admonition is taken generally for any warning, which is used by words; whether it be to procure and performe good to our neighbours; or to drive away and makeup any hurt.

42. Therefore it containes in it our duty to teach and admonish. *Colof.* 3.16. To observe others that we may whet them to love and good workes. *Heb.* 10.24. To exhort them also dayly. *Heb.* 3.13. To comfort them against sorrow and griefe. 1 *Theff.* 4.18. And to correct them in a brotherly manner, if they be overtaken with some offence. *Sal.* 6.1. *Rev.* 19 17.

43. But this brotherly correction is then to be used; when we certainly know that the evill to be corrected is committed, when there is hope of some fruit, or good to follow upon our correction,
