---
reading: ames-marrow-2.16
page: 303
pdf_page: 315
sortable_pagination_id: 315
---

fallen, or by preserving of others from partaking of the same; lastly, when there is fit opportunity in respect of time, or person, and the circumstances.

44. Unto this admonition is opposed consent, or communion with others in their sins. *Eph.* 5.7.11.

45. One is said to be partaker of anothers sin nine wayes; which are thus set down in Latine.

*Iussio, consilium, consensus, palpa, recursus, Participans, mutans, non obstans, non manifestans.*

That is summarily, consent is given to sinners, by counselling, defending, helping, permitting when we can hinder, and by holding our peace when we may profitably speak. *Ro.* 1.32.

46. Good example is a representation of a good worke, whereby others may be stirred up to performe the like. *1 Tim.* 4.12. *Tit.* 2.4.7. *Mat.* 5.16. *1 Pet.* 2.12.

47. To good example scandall is opposed. *1 Cor.* 10.32. Give no offence to the *Iewes*, to the *Gentiles*, nor the Church of God.

48. A scandall is a representation of an evill worke whereby others may either be stirred up to sin (whence it is called πρόσκομμα or a cause of stumbling) or to be hindred or slackned from doing good, (whence it is called ἀσθένεια or a cause of weakning) and that is properly called a scandall. *1 Cor.* 8.9,10. Take heed that your liberty be not an occasion of stumbling to the weake, &c. *Rom.* 14.21. Wherein thy brother stumbleth, or is offended, or is made weake.

49. There is in every evill worke which is made known to others the respect of a scandall. *Mat.* 18.6,7,8. Whosoever shall be an offence. If thy hand, foot, eye cause thee to offend. If thy brother sin against thee.

50. There is also sometime a scandall in a worke of it selfe lawfull, if it be not expedient in respect of others. *1 Cor.* 8.13. If my meat offend my brother, I will never eat flesh, least I offend my brother.

51. But an indifferent thing is said to be expedient, or not expedient, when all circumstances considered it maketh, or maketh not to the glory of God, and edification of our neighbour.

52. There is no humane authority that can make that action law-
