---
reading: ames-marrow-2.16
page: 304
pdf_page: 316
sortable_pagination_id: 316
---

lawfull, whereby a scandall is given to our neighbour.

53. But then a scandall is said to be given : either when some manifest sin is committed, or at least that which hath evident shew of sin is committed, so that it becomes known to others ; or when that is rashly committed which is not necessary by Gods Command, and yet brings spirituall hurt to others : but much more if the perverting or troubling of our neighbour be by that very action directly intended.

54. But if there follow offence, not from the condition of our worke, but from the pure malice of others, then it is called an offence taken, as that of the Pharisees, which is not our sin, but of those who are offended. Mat. 15.12, 13, 14 Knowest thou not that the Pharisees were offended at that saying? Let them alone : they be blind leaders of the blind.

55. But although this offence taken cannot be avoyded by us ; yet an offence given may and ought. For God never layes upon his a necessity of offending.

56. That scandall whereby one is said ( metaphorically ) to offend himselfe, or to give occasion of sinning to himselfe, is by proportion referred to an offence given.

57. A reall effesting or procuring the good of our neighbour, is when we our selves performe something which of it selfe tends to the good of our neighbour without his helpe comming between. Heb. 13, 16. To doe good, and to distribute forget not.

58. But although all acts of Justice ought to have charity joyned to it, yet there are some wherein Justice doth more shine forth, and others wherein charity doth more rule.

59. Hence that distinction ariseth whereby some offices are said to belong to Justice strictly taken, and some belonging to charity ; of which difference and formall distribution we have Christ the author. Luke 11.42. Ye passe by judgment and the loye of God.

60. Those are the acts of Justice which have in them the consideration of a debt and equality in respect of others.

61. Those are the acts of charity whereby the good of another is respected more then our debt.

62. The offices of Justice, are before, and of straighter obligation then they which are of charity.

63. Hence
