---
reading: ames-marrow-2.16
page: 305
pdf_page: 317
sortable_pagination_id: 317
---

63. Hence we are more bound to pay our debts, then to give any thing of our own; and he that offends another, is more bound to seeke reconciliation then he that is offended.

64. There is in many things a double respect of Justice, one whereof respects the next end, and words of the Law, that bindeth, which is called Justice in the most strict sence; and the other, respects the remote end and reason of the Law which is called equity or *epieikeia*.

65. The parts of this Justice are two, one whereof gives to every one his own, and it is called distributive Justice, the other restores to every one his own, and it may be called emendative Justice.

66. Distributive Justice cannot be rightly performed without a right judging of things and persons; and a meete comparison of things to things, and persons to persons, from whence ariseth that proportion which they call geometricall.

67. Unto distributive Justice is opposed acception of persons, whereby one is preferred before another in the distribution of good due, without just cause.

68. Emendative Justice is either Commutative, or Corrective.

69. Commutative Justice is equality of the thing given, and received.

70. Corrective Justice, presuppofeth some Injustice, and it is either civill or criminall.

71. Civill doth chiefly correct the injustice of the cause.

72. Criminall doth chiefly correct the injustice of the person.

73. To corrective Justice pertaineth revenge, and restitution.

74. Revenge is an act of corrective Justice whereby punishment is inflicted on him, who hath violated Justice.

75. The end hereof ought to be the amendment or restraint of the offendor, quietnesse and admonition to others, and so the preserving of Justice, and of the honour of God. *Dent.* 13. 11. & 17.13. & 19.20. & 21.21. That all *Israel* may heare, and feare, and do no such iniquity in the midst of thee.

76. Restitution is an act of corrective Justice, whereby another is set againe into the possession of that thing of his own whereof he was unjustly deprived.

77. Hence
