---
reading: william-saint-amour-collectiones-d4
page: 457
pdf_page: 551
sortable_pagination_id: 551
---

\[of pie\]ty, that is, they preach, in order to acquire temporal gain; because they preach for profit, not for fruit.

But how can it be known whether someone preaches for profit?

I answer: namely, when he receives gold or silver from those to whom he preaches, unless perhaps for daily sustenance, or for some public benefit established by the Church. Hence on that passage of Matthew 10, *Do not possess gold or silver,* the Gloss says: *If they had these things, they would seem to preach not for the sake of salvation, but for the sake of gain.* Likewise, as Hieronymus says on the Prophet Malachi: *Because certain Prophets accepted money, their prophecy was turned into divination;* that is, it was shown not to be from the Lord, but from the Devil, as is read in 1. q. 1. cap. *Numquam divinatio.* The same could be said if a Preacher were to receive a measure of wine, or a cor \[measure\] of wheat, or anything else equivalent to gold or silver up to the quantity of \[prohibited\] gifts. Just as it is said of those who hold public offices: *Although it is licit for them to receive food and drink as small presents, yet it is not licit for them to receive up to the quantity of \[prohibited\] gifts,* as Human Law says, ff. De officio Proconsulum L. Solent. Much less, therefore, is it licit for Preachers to receive from their Hearers up to the quantity of \[prohibited\] gifts, lest through this they burden their Hearers; or lest the Gospel become hateful; or lest the Preachers themselves lose the liberty of rebuking; or lest the Gospel seem to be for sale; or also for other reasons set forth and assigned above in dist. 2. §. *Hoc autem faciebat Apostolus.*

But there are certain Preachers who, lest they seem to be hucksters, and so that they may more decorously despoil \[their hearers\] through others rather than through themselves, and obtain greater gifts, for this reason ask nothing from their Hearers in their own persons; but send their emissaries to circumvent them, who importunely and incessantly beg for grain, or wine, or money for the purpose of clothing, or anything else which they say they need, and receive indiscriminately from anyone whatsoever. From such circumvention the Apostle excuses himself in 2 Corinthians 12, saying: *But be it so.* That is, Perhaps you will say that *I DID NOT BURDEN YOU.* Gloss: *In my own person, by accepting your goods.* BUT (Perhaps you will object against me) that, *BEING crafty.* That is, cunning, *I CAUGHT you with guile.* That is, I de-
