---
reading: william-saint-amour-collectiones-d4
page: 458
pdf_page: 552
sortable_pagination_id: 552
---

took you, since I was unwilling to accept anything in my own person, so that I might receive through my envoys. Then he answers this unfavorable suspicion, clearing himself and saying: *Did I take advantage of you by any of those whom I sent to you?* Gloss: *Namely, by asking for or receiving your goods.* As if he were saying, *No.* Those Preachers, therefore, who act contrary to this word and example of the Apostle, take the property of their Hearers, as it seems, by circumvention; by which they plainly show themselves to be Pseudo\[-preachers\], if it is not established that they have a Canonical mission. On account of such Pseudo-Preachers, who preach for gain, the Early Fathers of the Order of Preachers once obtained, with a view to eliminating them from the Order, a certain letter from the Apostolic See, in which it is provided, *That if any of the Friars Preachers shall have turned their preaching to gain, they be seized and cast into prison.*

But perhaps some Pseudo\[-preachers\], transforming themselves into Apostles of Christ (2 Corinthians 11), and wickedly humbling themselves, according to that saying of Ecclesiasticus 19, *There is one who humbles himself wickedly, but his inward parts are full of deceit,* will say: We, since we are Preachers of the Gospel, although we could take support authoritatively from those to whom we sow spiritual things, as owed to us by the Lord’s ordinance in Luke 10, *Eating and drinking the things that are with them,* nevertheless do not ask for them authoritatively, but rather, wishing to humble ourselves and, after the manner of the Apostle, to go beyond what is required, we choose rather to beg from those to whom we preach; asking, that is, for the necessities of life, not by reason of debt, but for God’s sake. Hence, asking in this manner, we cannot be said to preach for gain, but for God; although out of humility we seek by begging from them, as was said above in dist. 1, §. *Sed contra hoc forte.*

To which it must be said that those who say this, if they preach without being sent, are Pseudo\[-preachers\], as was shown above in dist. 1, §. *Quoniam igitur futura*; and therefore they ought not to be admitted to preaching, as was shown in the same place. Moreover, when they say they wish to beg for the sake of humility, they speak falsely; since it is not begging, but rather working with one’s hands, that is the work of humility, as was shown above in dist. 2, near the beginning, §. *Ad illud autem.* Indeed, it is a work of sin, except in the cases assigned above in dist. 2, §. *Sunt autem quidam casus,* with the ten following Paragraphs. But if perhaps such Preachers judge their
