---
reading: william-saint-amour-collectiones-d4
page: 459
pdf_page: 553
sortable_pagination_id: 553
---

begging to be a work of humility or piety, they seem to be among those false ones of whom the Apostle speaks in 1 Timothy 6: *Who suppose that gain is godliness.* But if the aforesaid Preachers are sent and preach, and ask for or receive support from those to whom they preach, then in whatever manner they ask or receive it—whether as something owed or for God’s sake (since it is only for God’s sake, that is, by the Lord’s Right, that they can ask)—they live from the Gospel, which cannot be begging but authority; and so they receive support authoritatively, not as beggars, as was shown above in dist. 1, § *Sed contra hoc fortè* and § *Item Augustinus.* Therefore they humble themselves falsely when they say that they wish to beg from their Hearers for the sake of humility, since, if they have been sent, they cannot beg from them.

Again, sent Preachers humble themselves falsely if they say that they wish to come to such great poverty that they are obliged to beg, as some teach; since from such great poverty it could happen that they become saddened on account of lack of support, and that their persistence is slackened and their authority also diminished. Whence on 1 Timothy 5, on that text *The Elders that rule well*, the Gloss says: *Good Stewards ought to be furnished in advance not only with lofty honor, but also with earthly \[honor\]; so that they not be saddened by lack of support. For the Preacher is more persistent if he is not humbled by want; and authority grows in him, when he sees himself even in the present receiving the fruit of his labor—not that he may abound, but that he may not fail,* as was said above in the same dist. in the tenth Sign, § *Sed fortè.* Note what the Gloss says: *That they not be saddened by lack of support.* From this it appears that even true Preachers are sometimes saddened by lack of support. Again, note that it says: *The Preacher is more persistent, if he is not humbled* (that is, if he is not demeaned) *by want.* From this it appears that the Preacher is sometimes demeaned by want, and from the same cause his persistence is slackened. Again, note what it says: *And authority grows in him, when he sees himself even in the present receiving the fruit of his labor.* From this it appears that the authority of a Preacher decreases when, not receiving support from the Gospel (perhaps because he lacks the office of preaching, since he has not been sent canonically), he must beg. Since therefore the three aforesaid inconveniences are not expedient, but rather hinder the Preacher and the preaching, it remains that a good Preacher ought not to desire the begging from which those things arise. If
