---
reading: william-saint-amour-collectiones-d4
page: 462
pdf_page: 556
sortable_pagination_id: 556
---

if they were their Evangelists, or ministers of their altar, so as to administer the Ecclesiastical Sacraments to them, just as parish priests do. So did certain Pseudo-Preacher monks of old, who had no people; against whom Augustinus speaks in the same book, ch. 20: “But these our Brethren rashly claim for themselves, as I judge, that they have such power — namely, of living by the Gospel. For if they are Evangelists, ministers of the Altar, dispensers of the Sacraments, I grant it, they have it.” As if he were saying: if they do not hold these offices in the churches of those from whom they receive, then neither do they have the power of taking maintenance from them. For it is certain that maintenance is owed from the Gospel only to those who either regularly preside in governance and teaching by the dignity of their office, and who are bound to the care of souls by the duty of their office. Whence in 1 Thess. 5 the Apostle says: “We beseech you, Brethren, that you know” (that is, show yourselves to know, namely through the provision of maintenance) “those who labor among you.” Glossa: “In your governance and teaching.” “And are over you.” Glossa: “By dignity.” And this, “IN the Lord” — that is, by the Lord’s ordination. “And admonish you.” Glossa: “By the duty of their office.” Therefore those who do not have the dignity or the due office of governing souls cannot demand maintenance as owed to them.

Again, the Pseudo not only receive sustenance from those to whom they preach, if it is offered to them, but sometimes even importunately demand it, although it is not due. Whence on that passage of 1 Thess. 2, “When we might have been a burden to you, as the Apostles of Christ, etc.,” the Glossa says: “He calls the due of Apostolic power a BURDEN on account of the Pseudo, who, usurping that which was not due to them, used to exact it importunately from the people.”

But certain Moderns, surpassing the importunity of the ancient Pseudo, not only importunately demand and ask necessary sustenance, though it is not due to them, from those who are not their subjects; but they also do not cease to extort enormous sums of money — not only from good and devout Faithful of Christ, but even from Tyrants, Robbers, Usurers, and other great wealthy Sinners who have not made amends — by various and importunate collections under the pretext of alms; contrary to the teaching of Hieronymus on that passage of Matt. 15, “Whatever gift is from me shall profit thee,” where he says thus: “We ought to beware lest we accept gifts from those who gather riches from the tears of the Poor.” Concerning money thus extorted, these very Extortioners, lest
