---
reading: william-saint-amour-collectiones-d4
page: 467
pdf_page: 561
sortable_pagination_id: 561
---

of sustaining this life, I am compelled to preach the gospel, a stewardship has been entrusted to me; so that it is by my stewardship, since I preach Christ, since I preach the truth — although by occasion, although seeking my own advantage, although compelled by the necessity of earthly gain — I may profit others, while I myself do not have that glorious and everlasting reward with God. WHAT REWARD, THEN, HAVE I, says the Apostle? And below: see what he answers. THAT, PREACHING, he says, I MAY SET FORTH THE GOSPEL WITHOUT COST. That is, that the gospel may not be costly to those who believe, lest they suppose that it is preached to them in such a way that the evangelist should seem, as it were, to be selling it. Thus far the words of Augustinus. True Preachers, therefore, expecting from their preaching the reward of eternal glory, after the likeness of the Apostle Paul, preach willingly, not unwillingly — that is, not compelled by the necessity of getting through this life.

Likewise, those who preach compelled by the necessity of a livelihood wish to serve God and Mammon at the same time — contrary to that in Matthew 6: No one can serve God and Mammon; since in truth they serve only Mammon. Whence Augustinus in the book *De Opere Monachorum*, ch. 26: For he who preaches the gospel for this reason, that he may have something to eat and wherewith to be clothed, supposes that he serves God, because he preaches the gospel, and at the same time Mammon, because he preaches for the sake of these necessaries; which the Lord says cannot be done. And therefore he who preaches the gospel for the sake of these things is convicted of serving not God but Mammon, even if God uses him (in a way he himself does not know) for the profit of others.

If, then, any Preachers (of whose canonical calling or mission there is no certainty), compelled by the necessity of getting through this life, customarily evangelize or preach (seeing that, if they did not preach, they would have nothing to live on), they seem to preach not willingly but unwillingly; and therefore not to have the reward of eternal glory, but rather to serve Mammon and not God. And therefore they do not seem to be true Apostles, but rather may be suspected of being Pseudo\[-apostles\].

## Sign XLIII

The forty-third Sign can be this: that true Apostles do not fraudulently circumvent people in order to extort their goods by flattery, as the Pseudo\[-apostles\] do. Whence, distinguishing himself from the Pseudo\[-apostles\], the Apostle says in 2 Corinthians 7: We have circumvented no one. Glossa: by the fraudulent taking away of their goods, as the Pseudo\[-apostles\] do, who by flattery carry off what is yours. Do not
