---
reading: william-saint-amour-collectiones-d4
page: 472
pdf_page: 566
sortable_pagination_id: 566
---

promising them the suffrages of their prayers; and lest they change or revoke the legacies left to them, or the testaments drawn up on their counsel, they constantly attend them until death; and once they have died, they fraudulently convert their money, as has been said, to their own use or the use of their associates. They seem to carry off their goods fraudulently and by flattery; they also seem to entangle themselves in secular affairs contrary to the teaching of the Apostle, and to be Traders, or Merchants of Prayers, and through this to furnish the Devil with the arms of Christ. They also seem to be Vultures circling about and awaiting corpses; they seem likewise to be Ravenous Wolves, coveting the fleshly goods of Christ’s sheep. And therefore they do not seem to be true Apostles, but Pseudo-Apostles.

## Sign XLIV

The forty-fourth Sign can be, That true Apostles do not frequently gather at another’s table in bodily idleness, lest they become Flatterers. For as the Gloss says on that passage of 2 Thess. 3, *That we might give ourselves as a model to you*, etc., *He who frequently gathers at another’s table, given over to idleness, must needs flatter the one who feeds him*: since our Religion calls men to liberty, as was said above in dist. 2, §. *Si vero dicatur*. Of such men that passage of Ecclesiasticus 40 can be understood literally: *The man who looks to another’s table, his life is not in the thought of his sustenance; for he feeds his soul on another’s food. But the disciplined and learned man keeps himself*; namely, from such persons, or from such conduct. Against such persons it is also said in the same book, ch. 29, *Pass on, stranger*, etc. And further: *And with what you have in your hand, feed the rest*, — Gloss: *You who delight in another’s hospitality, return to your own, and from your own labor feed others*. Likewise in the same chapter a little before: *It is a wicked life, to lodge from house to house*. Again, since according to Gregorius, *He whose life is despised, his preaching is of necessity held in contempt*; therefore true Apostles, not wishing their preaching to be held in contempt, lest through this they be reckoned useless, do not wish their life to be despised; and therefore they do not frequently gather at another’s table, even when invited. For as Hieronymus says *Ad Nepotianum*: *He is the more easily despised who is often called to dinner and does not refuse*. Therefore he is much more easily despised who, uninvited, often thrusts himself upon the unwilling at dinner.

If therefore any Preachers (whose canonical vocation or mission is not established) habitually do so, they do not seem to be true Apostles, but rather can be suspected to be Pseudo-Apostles.
