---
reading: tuckney-sermon-38
page: 644
pdf_page: 556
sortable_pagination_id: 556
---

# Sermon XXXVIII. Mat. 24. 45, 46.

But that Reward is the last part of my Text. We are before that to consider of our Work. And that is the 2d; Which (having dispatched our Office, Servants, and yet made Rulers over God's Houshold) we come to in those words, τὸ διδόναι αὐτοῖς τὴν τροφὴν ἐν καιρῷ. It's to give them their Food in due season.

1. I will not insist upon that, which yet some observe from the word διδόναι, that it's a giving, and not a selling of this Food to the Houshold. Christ once whipt Buyers and Sellers out of the Temple: but after-ages complained much that they were gotten in again. This Food for the Houshold is the Masters Provision, and only put into the Stewards hands for his Housholds use. All thy Grace, Wisdom, Ability to dispense the Word and other Ordinances, to govern the Church, &c. are God's Gifts, which he never betrusted thee with to enjoy, or make a Mercat of for thy self, thine own gain or applause, but for the Glory of thy Master, and the service of his Spouse: and therefore although the Labourer be worthy of his hire, Luke 10.7. yet neither be thou on the one side ever so mercenary, as to account thy maintenance such an hire of thy Labour as which thou aimest at, and puttest off the Ordinances of God for: No, in this sense freely thou hast received, and therefore freely give.

Nor let the People be ever so mean as to think, when they have paid their Pittance they have bought you for Slaves, and like good Chapmen have made a fair purchase of the Word, and the
