---
reading: tuckney-sermon-38
page: 645
pdf_page: 557
sortable_pagination_id: 557
---

the rest of God's Ordinances, which they hereupon claim as their due, and in case, though by their own default, they come short of, you shall fall short of yours. But how unworthy are such base Simoniacal chafferings of thee, as thou art either a Minister, or Christian? something akin to Judas selling, and the Jews buying of Christ for thirty pieces of Silver: and a goodly price, wherewith I was prised at of them, saith the Lord, Zech. 11. 13. The Apostle would lift us up to higher thoughts, when he calls the Church Officers maintenance, not Wages but Honour, 1 Tim. 5. 17. to be freely honorably allowed, not as a recompense of their Labour, but as an honorable testimony of our love and respect, not as the price of the Gospel, and all that either we mean to give for it, or the Ministers should look at in dispensing of it. There's much more that God expects for it from the People, and which his Ministers should look at in their administrations of it. They are first διδοναι, to give the Houshold their Food in due Season.

2. The second thing observable is, what they are to give, expressed in the word τροφην, their Food and Nourishment, by which Hierom means Cibaria doctrinarum: others, verbi & Sacramentorum pabulum, the sacred Food of the Word and Sacraments; not excluding either the wholsom Physick of Church-Censures, for it's Physick as well as Food, which we pray for, when we begg our daily Bread, Matth. 6. 11. or the due administration of any other of the parts of Church-Government, for as Christ ποιμαινει, feeds whilst he rules, Matth. 2. 6. (Kings are ποιμενες λαων) so we may properly be said to Feed, by Governing as well as Teaching. In reference to both which, Paul in his charge to the Elders of Ephesus calls upon them ποιμαινειν την εκκλησιαν τ8 Θεξ, to feed the Church of God, Act. 20. 28. That's their Task, nor can you conceive otherwise, if you consider,

1. Either the Master of the House his Royal Bounty. He would not have his Family starved, and therefore takes order that they shall be fed. In our Fathers House there's Bread enough, Luke 15. 17.

2. Or his Servant's Office and Duty. They are elsewhere stiled Shepherds; and a Pastor's work is to feed the Flock, Zech. 11. 7. Nurses; and they suckle and cherish their Children, 1 Thes. 2. 7. in the place of Luke parallel to the Text οικονομοι, Stewards, whose whole work both here and there is summed up in this
