---
reading: tuckney-sermon-38
page: 646
pdf_page: 558
sortable_pagination_id: 558
---

this comprehensive expression of giving Food to the whole Family. And for your quickning herein, the Application of this

Proclaims the People of God their great need, even greater of these Spiritual supplies, than any can have of those corporal, the fainting-Soul standing in more need to be plied with Promises and Incouragements, than the swooning Man with Cordials; and the careless and foul Sinner, of Threats and Admonitions, than the foul diseased Body of stronger Purges; and the obstinate Sinner more to be cast out, than the gangren'd Member to be cut off: all of us as much and more of this Spiritual Food, than any, than all of us do of our Natural-Food, and Job called that necessary Food, Job. 23. 12. and therefore no wonder if Paul said, a necessity is laid upon me, and wo unto me if I Preach not the Gospel, 1 Cor. 9. 16. God and Nature is not wanting to thee in necessaries: Let not Grace suffer thee to be wanting to thy charge in their necessities. Christ was willing to bleed, that of his Flesh and Blood he might make the Provisions, wilt not thou be willing to be at the Cost, though it be of thy Sweat, to set them on the Board? Let thy People's hungring desires bespeak thy pity. It was one of the saddest Notes in the Church's Lamentations, that the Children asked Bread, and there was none to break it to them, Lament. 4. 4. Or should their Desires be silent, yet let their Wants cry for thy Compassion. Cogita de cibo & potu animalium tuorum, saith Bernard, nam esuriunt, & non petunt; they oft are Hungry, and yet so weak, sullen, or shamefaced, that they will not, or cannot ask; nay (which is worse) inedia languent, & tamen non esuriunt, they too oft are half famished, and yet are not an hungry, are ready to die, not so much for want of Food, as of a Stomach, as it is with too many of our Flock at this day. And therefore (in this case, if in any) if there be any Consolation in Christ, if any Comfort of Love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any Bowels and Mercies, let our Bowels earn over them. Starved Souls will be frightful Ghosts to us, when they and we at last shall stand together to give up our account, and to receive our doom. Let this make us think of our charge and mind our work, It is to give Food to God's Houshold.

Which calls for a second part of our care, that it be indeed Τροφή, nourishing-Food, that we give them. If they ask Bread, give them not a Stone, or if Fish, let it not be a Serpent, (Matth. 7. 9, 10.) in hard and harsh usages. It's
