---
reading: tuckney-sermon-38
page: 647
pdf_page: 559
sortable_pagination_id: 559
---

It's Food , not the Poyson of Heresies and corrupt Doctrines , or destructive Administrations. Your Power is given to Edification , 2 Cor. 10. 8. and not to Destruction.
It's τροφή , solid nourishing Food , not the Froth of Airy Notions , or our fine-spun high-flown Speculations , not the Trash , Hay and Stubble of our own Fancies , Humors , Passions , no nor the rarest Flowers of our great Readings and curious Elegancies. The Sheep of Christ's Pasture use to feed on more wholsom Herbs , whilst they let such Flowers stand by. The Word is the immortal Seed , that begets us , 1 Pet. 1.23. ( These too dilute to be prolifical , as be those of the Philosopher's Books , animum non dant , quia non habent ) and the sincere Milk Chap. 2. v. 2. to nourish us. From these we can suck nothing but Wind , which makes us swell , and that's all. What's the Chaff to the Wheat ? Jer. 23.28. It's τροφή , ἄρτος , the solid nourishing Bread of Life , and therefore away with all such Kickshaws.

3. The third thing observable in this second part is , that what Matthew here calls τροφήν , their Food , Luke in the parallel place , calls σιτομέτριον , demensum , their portion of Meat , which Agur phraseth ( though in another sense , Prov. 30. 8. ) Food convenient for me. There are in God's Family young Babes as well as grown Men. The Same Dispensation will not either for kind or measure , sute all. Some sick and weak , others healthy and strong , some sick of lighter Fevers , others of more putrid , it may be Hectical or Malignant. That which will feed the Child will pine the Man : and what's Food to him that's healthy , may be poison to the Sick ; and that which will heal a Whitlow , will not cure a Gangrene : As therefore God in his greater House of the World , hath such both store and choice , that he answers the want and desire of every living thing , Psal. 145. 16. So this Presence-Chamber of his Church he hath so fully fitted and furnished , that in his Word , Sacraments , Censures , and other Administrations , his Mannah is answerable to every Palat : he hath a fit Medicine for every Malady ; both a Rod and a Pot of Manna in his Ark. But now to know which of them to use , and to whom. This ὀρθοτομία , this right dividing of the Word of Truth , 2 Tim. 2. 15. so as the proud Sinner may not presume , nor the fainting Christian droop , the right Administration of the Keys , that no false Pretender , notwithstanding his greatest shews , may be let in , nor the weakest Believer , notwithstanding his many weaknesses , kept out , that we do not on
