---
reading: tuckney-sermon-38
page: 648
pdf_page: 560
sortable_pagination_id: 560
---

the one hand, in too rigorous a way kill a fly on our Brothers Forehead with a Beetle, nor on the other, through ignorance, inadvertency, Interest or the like, blow whole a corrupt Ulcer a little skinned over. This is one of the hardest pieces of our works. hic labor, huc opus, & τις προς ταυτα; Lord who is sufficient for these things? 2 Cor. 2. 16. This would call for in Ministers a more diligent inspection into, and Knowledge of the state of our Flock (Prov. 27. 23.) than I fear we have any of us attained to, or many of us endeavoured after; which we had need this day to be greatly humbled for our want & neglect of. This requires all the qualifications, which Christ here mentioneth, of Faithfulness, Wisdom, Sincerity, Constancy, Instancy, which (I said) are contained in the third part of the Text, so worthy to be sought, and yet so hard to be found, if all of you should be like some of us, that in both respects Christ may here ask the question, Who is that Faithful and Wise Servant, whom his Lord shall make Ruler over his Houshold, to give them their Food, or due portion of Meat, in due season?

4. Which last words, εν Καιρω in season, is the fourth particular in this second part of the Text.

Food is to be given, and that in a fit proportion, and also in a fit Season. It's so with orderly Men, and in well-ordered Families, Eccles. 10. 17. and God would not have his House worse ordered. The wise Physician as he weighs the Dose he gives, so he calculates the time in which he should most seasonably give it. It's the Wisdom of God as Governor of the World, that as he satisfieth the desires of his Creatures in giving them their Food, so, that it is in due season, Psal. 145. 15. and accordingly as the Lawgiver of his Church you shall observe how punctual he is in the Law to require his Ordinances to be observed, but in their season, Exod. 13. 10. Levit. 23. 4. Numb. 9. 3,7,13 & 28.2. He is now no whit less careful of it in the dispensation of the Gospel. Ευκαιρως ακαιρως, is the Apostolical Precept, 2 Tim. 4. 2. Be instant in season: He adds indeed, and out of season too, though that is out in some Copies: but if you take it in, you must understand it of that which the wisdom of the Flesh accounts out of season, as that it will not stand now with the Ministers profit, or the peoples occasions or humors. For otherwise it's both the faithfulness and wisdom of Ministers and other Church-Officers heedfully and watchfully to watch and catch all fittest opportunities, in which they may act most seasonably:

1. Hard
