---
reading: biel-sentences-4.13.2
page: 160b
pdf_page: 168
sortable_pagination_id: 168.2
---

\[Those who add the requirement of contrition\] therefore superfluously add what would suffice for receiving grace at the terminal point of attrition without the sacrament — yet \[the attrited penitent\] nevertheless receives \[grace\] by virtue of sacramental absolution, as he says in dist. 18 and dist. 14, q. 4, where he pursues this more fully. He says also that God in this way requires a disposition of congruence in order that he may offer grace to a sinner — not because he binds his own power to the sacrament (since to offer grace through the sacrament even without any prior, congruent, and sufficient disposition would be a still greater mercy) — but \[rather\] in order to institute a twofold path by which he justifies the sinner, rather than to constrain him to a single path. Just as an adult can obtain the first grace destroying original \[sin\] by two paths: either through a good motion disposing him to it de congruo, or through the reception of baptism — so too in the present case. And he explains it thus. For the first reception of grace, some meritorious motion de congruo is required. For the second, however, nothing more is required than the voluntary reception of baptism and the absence of sinful action — that is, with the intention of receiving what the Church confers, without the act or will of mortal sin. So that in the first mode something intrinsic is required, accepted in some measure as merit de congruo. In the second, only an external act is required along with the removal of the interior impediment. Therefore not only does the attrited person receive, at some point up to and including the final instant, the grace destroying such sin by virtue of merit de congruo; but not having an act of the sort that would suffice for merit de congruo, but only the will to receive the sacrament of the Church without the obstacle of mortal sin actually present in deed or in an adhering will, \[such a person\] receives
