---
reading: dante-comedy-inferno-19
page: 76
pdf_page: 82
sortable_pagination_id: 82
---

And he to me: “If you wish me to carry you
down there along the bank that slopes most steeply,
from him you will learn about himself and his wrongs.”

And I: “What pleases you is pleasing to me:
you are my lord, and know that I do not depart
from your will, and you know what is left unsaid.”

Then we came to the fourth embankment:
we turned and descended on the left hand
down into the pitted and narrow bottom.

My good master still had not set me down
from his hip, when he brought me close to the cleft
of the one who was weeping with his shank.

“O whatever you are who hold your upper part below,
sad soul planted like a stake,”
I began to say, “speak, if you can.”

I stood as the friar who hears the confession
of a treacherous assassin, who, once he has been fixed,
calls him back, so that death may be delayed.

And he cried out: “Are you already standing there,
are you already standing there, Bonifazio?
By several years the writing deceived me.

Are you so quickly sated with those riches
for which you did not fear to take by guile
the beautiful lady, and then to do her violence?”

I became like those people who stand there
uncomprehending what has been answered to them,
as if duped, and unable to reply.

Then Virgilio said: “Tell him quickly:
‘I am not he, I am not he whom you think’”;
and I answered as was required of me.

At that the spirit twisted both his feet in torment;
then, sighing and with a voice full of weeping,
he said to me: “Then what do you seek from me?

If it matters so much to you to know who I am,
that for this reason you have come down the bank,
know that I was clothed with the great mantle;
