---
reading: dante-comedy-inferno-19
page: 77
pdf_page: 83
sortable_pagination_id: 83
---

and truly I was a son of the she-bear,
so eager to advance the cubs
that up there I pursed up wealth, and here myself.

Beneath my head are pulled down the others
who went before me in simony,
flattened in the fissures of the stone.

Down there I too shall fall when the one comes
whom I took you to be
when I put my sudden question.

But the time is already longer that I have scorched my feet
and stood thus head-downward,
than he shall stand there planted with his feet red:

for after him shall come, from toward the west,
one of uglier deeds, a lawless shepherd,
such that it is fitting he cover both him and me.

He will be a new Jason, of whom one reads
in Maccabees; and as that one’s king was pliant to him,
so shall the king of France be to this one.”

I do not know if I was too rash here,
since to him I replied only in this measure:
“Pray tell me now: how great a treasure did

Our Lord require first of Saint Peter
before putting the keys into his keeping?
Surely he asked nothing but ‘Follow me.’

Neither did Peter nor the others take from Matthias
gold or silver, when he was chosen by lot
for the office which the guilty soul had lost.

Therefore stay put, for you are rightly punished;
and guard well the ill-gotten money
that made you so bold against Carlo.

And were it not that the reverence still forbids me
of the supreme keys
which you held in the life above,

I would use even graver words;
for your avarice grieves the world,
trampling the good and raising up the wicked.
