---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 537
pdf_page: 593
sortable_pagination_id: 593
---

What did he command? For the Lord had ordained that he \[Paul\], as an apostle and preacher of the gospel, as a soldier of Christ, a planter of the vineyard, a shepherd of the flock, should live from the gospel; and yet he himself did not exact the stipend owed to him, so that he might give himself as a model to those who were eager to exact what was not owed to them. As he says to the Corinthians: “Who ever serves as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat of its fruit? Who tends a flock and does not partake of the milk of the flock?” \[1 Corinthians 9:7\] Therefore what was owed to him he refused to receive, so that those might be restrained by his example who, not having been ordained in the church in the same way, nevertheless supposed that such things were owed to them. For what does it mean when he says: “nor did we eat bread as a gift from anyone, but in toil and weariness, working night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you — not because we did not have the right, but so that we might give ourselves to you as a model for you to imitate”? \[2 Thessalonians 3:8–9\] Let those therefore listen to whom he gave this command — that is, those who do not have the right that he had — to eat, while working only spiritually, bread free from bodily labor — and as he says: “we command and exhort in Christ, that working in silence they eat their own bread,” let them not argue against the plainest words of the apostle, for this too pertains to the silence with which those who work ought to eat their own bread.

## IV. 5.

I would examine and treat these words still more thoroughly and carefully, were it not that I have other passages from his let-
