---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 538
pdf_page: 594
sortable_pagination_id: 594
---

ters that are far more explicit, by comparison with which these passages too become more clearly manifest — and even if these passages did not exist, those would suffice. For writing to the Corinthians on this same matter he says: “Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? Have I not seen Christ Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord? If to others I am not an apostle, yet at least I am to you; for you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord. My defense to those who question me is this: Do we not have the right to eat and drink? Do we not have the right to take along a sister who is a woman, as the other apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas do?” \[1 Corinthians 9:1–5\] See how he first shows what is lawful for him and why it is lawful — because he is an apostle. For he began from this point: “Am I not free? Am I not an apostle?” And he proves that he is an apostle by saying: “Have I not seen Christ Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord?” Having established this, he shows that what is lawful for the other apostles is lawful for him too — namely, that he should not work with his hands but should live from the gospel, as the Lord ordained — which he demonstrated most openly in what follows; for to this end faithful women who possessed earthly means traveled with them and ministered to them out of their substance, so that they might lack nothing of those things that pertain to the substance of this life.
