---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 543
pdf_page: 599
sortable_pagination_id: 599
---

ever? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat of its fruit? Who tends a flock and does not drink of the milk of the flock? Do I say these things on human authority? Does not the law say the same? For in the law of Moses it is written: You shall not muzzle an ox when it is treading out the grain. Is it for oxen that God is concerned? Or does he say it entirely for our sake? It was written for our sake, because the plowman should plow in hope and the thresher thresh in hope of a share. By these words the apostle Paul makes sufficiently clear that his fellow apostles had not presumed upon anything beyond what was owed them, because they did not work with their hands to obtain the necessities of life; rather, just as the Lord had ordained, they lived from the gospel and ate free bread from those to whom they preached free grace. For they received their wages like soldiers, and freely gathered from the fruit of the vineyard they had planted whatever they needed; they drank the milk of the flock they tended; and they took their food from the threshing floor they worked.

## VIII. 9.

He then connects the rest more plainly and removes all the windings of doubt entirely. “If,” he says, “we have sown spiritual things among you, is it a great matter if we reap your material things?” What are the spiritual things he sowed, if not the word and the ministry of the sacrament of the kingdom of heaven? And what are the material things he says it is lawful for him to reap, if not these temporal goods granted to sustain the needs of the flesh? He makes clear, however, that he has not sought or received from them these things that were owed him, lest he give any hindrance
