---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 548
pdf_page: 604
sortable_pagination_id: 604
---

have. “What therefore is my reward?” he asks — this is said as a question, and so the delivery must be suspended until he answers. That we may understand this more easily, let us as it were put the question to him ourselves: What therefore will your reward be, O apostle, when you do not receive that earthly recompense which, even though it is owed to good evangelists who do not preach the gospel for that reason, nevertheless follows and is offered \[to them\] by the Lord’s ordinance? What therefore will your reward be? See what he answers: “That preaching the gospel, I may make the gospel free of charge” \[1 Corinthians 9:18\] — that is, so that the gospel may not be costly to believers, lest they think the gospel is preached to them in order that the evangelists may appear, as it were, to sell it. And yet he returns again and again to show what is his right under the Lord’s ordinance and what he himself does not do: “that I may not,” he says, “abuse my power in the gospel.” \[1 Corinthians 9:18\]

## XI. 12.

Now because he did this by sharing in the weakness of men, let us hear what follows. “For though I am free from all,” he says, “I have made myself the servant of all, that I might gain the more: to those under the law, as under the law, though I myself am not under the law, that I might gain those who were under the law; to those without the law, as without the law, though I am not without the law of God but am in the law of Christ, that I might gain those without the law.” \[1 Corinthians 9:19–21\]
