---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 549
pdf_page: 605
sortable_pagination_id: 605
---

lation by cunning deception, but by the mercy of compassion — that is, he did not pretend to be a Jew, as some have supposed, because he observed the old legal rites in Jerusalem. For he did this in accordance with his own clear and explicit position, in which he says: “Was anyone called while circumcised? Let him not draw back” \[1 Corinthians 7:18\] — that is, let him not live as though he had brought back the foreskin and covered what had been exposed — just as he says elsewhere: “Your circumcision has become uncircumcision.” \[Romans 2:25\] In accordance with this same position, in which he says: “Was anyone called in uncircumcision? Let him not be circumcised,” \[1 Corinthians 7:18\] he performed those acts which, to those who did not understand and paid too little attention, he was thought to have performed in pretense. For he was a Jew and had been called as a circumcised man; he did not wish to draw back — that is, he did not wish to live as though he were not circumcised. For this was now within his power. And he was not under the law as those were who performed it in servile fashion, yet he was nonetheless in the law of God and of Christ. For that law was not one thing and the law of God another, as the accursed Manicheans are accustomed to say. Otherwise, if when he did those things he must be thought to have pretended, then he also pretended to be a pagan and sacrificed to idols — because he says he had become to those without the law as without the law, by whom he certainly means none other than the Gentiles, whom we call pagans. There is therefore a difference between being under the law, being in the law, and being without the law. Under the law are the carnal Jews; in the law are the spiritual — both Jews and Christians — whence those
