---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 550
pdf_page: 606
sortable_pagination_id: 606
---

observed that ancestral custom but did not impose unaccustomed burdens upon the Gentiles who had come to believe; and for that reason those \[Jewish Christians\] were also circumcised. Without the law, however, are the Gentiles who had not yet believed, to whom nonetheless the apostle testifies that he conformed himself through merciful compassion, not through chameleon-like dissimulation — that is, so as to come to the aid of the carnal Jew or pagan in the same way that he himself, were he in that condition, would have wished to be helped: bearing their weakness in the likeness of compassion, not deceiving them in the fabrication of a lie. As what immediately follows says: “I became weak with the weak, that I might win the weak.” \[1 Corinthians 9:22\] For he spoke from this perspective so as to say all those other things as well. Just as, then, the fact that he became weak with the weak was no lie, so too with all those other things said above. For what does he call his weakness toward the weak if not compassion for them to such a degree that, lest he should appear to be a peddler of the gospel and thereby impede the course of the word of God by falling into ill suspicion among the inexperienced, he was unwilling to receive what was owed him by the Lord’s ordinance? If he had wished to receive it, he would not have lied, because it was truly owed; and because he was unwilling, he did not lie. For he did not say it was not owed to him; rather, he showed that it was owed, and professed that he had not made use of what was owed nor ever intended to make use of it — thereby made weak by the very fact that he was unwilling to exercise his authority, clothed as he was in so merciful an affection that he considered how he would wish to be treated if he himself were so weakened that he might be tempted to suspect those through whom the gospel was being preached to him, if he saw them accepting expenses, of running a marketplace of merchandise.

## XII. 13.

Concerning this weakness of his, he speaks elsewhere: “We became
