---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 554
pdf_page: 610
sortable_pagination_id: 610
---

because you had become very dear to us. For you recall, brothers, our labor and toil — working night and day so that we might not burden any of you.” This, then, is what he said earlier: “though we might have been a burden to you as apostles of Christ.” For, shaken to the depths as by a father’s and mother’s affections at the peril of the weak — lest, disturbed by false suspicions, they should come to hate the gospel as something for sale — he did this. He speaks in the same way in the Acts of the Apostles as well, when, sending from Miletus to Ephesus, he had summoned the elders of the church there, saying among many other things: “I coveted no one’s silver or gold or clothing. You yourselves know that these hands have served my needs and the needs of those who were with me. I have shown you in all things that by so laboring one ought to support the weak, being mindful also of the words of the Lord Jesus, because he himself said: it is more blessed to give than to receive.”

## XIII. 14.

Here perhaps someone might say: if the apostle was performing manual labor in order to sustain this life of his, what was that work itself, and when did he have leisure both to work and to preach the gospel? To this I reply: suppose I do not know; yet that he did perform manual labor and thereby lived in the flesh — not making use of the authority which the Lord had granted to the apostles, that one who proclaims the gospel should live by the gospel — the things said above attest without any doubt. For it has not been said in one place only, or briefly,
