---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 556
pdf_page: 612
sortable_pagination_id: 612
---

even in bodily work itself, the apostle was performing what is good.

## XIV. 15.

As for when he used to work — that is, during what intervals of time, so as not to be hindered from preaching the gospel — who can fully grasp it? Certainly he himself did not keep silent about the fact that he worked both by day and by night. Yet those who, as though very busy and occupied, ask about the time of his labor — what are they doing? Did they themselves fill the lands from Jerusalem round about as far as Illyricum with the gospel? Or did they undertake, for the peace of the church, whatever barbarian nations remain still to be visited and evangelized? We know them gathered most idly into a certain holy community. The apostle did a remarkable thing: he who truly bore so great a care for all the churches — both those already spread abroad and those yet to be spread abroad, which pertained to his oversight and labor — also worked with his hands; and yet for all that, while he was at Corinth and was in want, he was indeed not burdensome to any of those among whom he was, but what he lacked those brothers plainly supplied who came from Macedonia.

## XV. 16.

For it is even he himself who, on account of needs of this kind among the saints — who, though they comply with his precepts so as to eat their own bread working in quietness, may yet for many reasons stand in need of some supplement of such sustenance — when he had spoken, teaching and forewarning, said: “Now such persons we command and exhort in
