---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 558
pdf_page: 614
sortable_pagination_id: 614
---

he could not work with his hands, \[Paul\] exhorts, admonishes, and consoles him thus. “Labor,” he says, “as a good soldier of Christ Jesus. No soldier serving God entangles himself in the affairs of civilian life, so that he may please the one to whom he has commended himself. For also, if anyone competes in athletics, he is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules.” Here, lest \[Timothy\] should suffer the anguish of one saying, “I cannot dig; I am ashamed to beg,” he added: “The hardworking farmer ought to be the first to receive a share of the crops.” This accords with what he had said to the Corinthians: “Who serves as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat of its fruit? Who tends a flock and does not partake of the milk of the flock?” In this way he made the chaste evangelist secure — one who was not proclaiming the gospel in order to sell it, yet who nonetheless was unable to supply the necessities of this life by his own hands — so that he might understand that what he received as necessary for himself from those among whom he served as a soldier assigned to a province, and whom he cultivated as a vineyard or tended as a flock, was not beggary, but a right.

## XVI. 17.

On account of these occupations, therefore, of the servants of God, or their bodily infirmities, which can never be wholly absent, the apostle not only permits the needs of the saints to be supplied by the good and faithful, but exhorts them to this most wholesomely. For setting aside that right of support which he says he himself did not use — yet which he commands the faithful to discharge, saying: “Let the one who is taught the word share all good things with the one who teaches” —
