---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 564
pdf_page: 620
sortable_pagination_id: 620
---

the servants of God who wished to hold a higher rank of holiness in the Church, in order that they might cut away all the chains of worldly hope and dedicate their free minds to divine warfare: so also must those servants themselves obey his precepts, that they may have compassion on the infirm, and, not bound by love of private property, labor with their own hands for the common good, comply without murmuring with those set over them — so that what is thought to be lacking for those who labor and work at something to earn their living — owing, however, to the bodily infirmities of some and to ecclesiastical occupations or instruction in saving doctrine — may be supplied from the offerings of the good faithful.

## XVII. 20.

What, then, do those do who refuse to work with their bodies? I wish to know to what pursuit they give themselves. “To prayer,” they say, “and to psalms, and to reading, and to the word of God.” A plainly holy life, and praiseworthy for the sweetness of Christ; but if we must not be called away from these things, then neither must we eat, nor must the daily food be prepared so that it can be set out and taken. But if the necessity of weakness itself compels the servants of God to devote fixed intervals of time to these bodily needs, why do we not also assign some portions of time to the observance of the apostolic precepts? For one prayer of an obedient man is heard more quickly than ten thousand prayers of a contemner. The divine songs, moreover, those who labor with their hands can readily sing, and find consolation in them as by a divine working-chant. Or do we not know that all craftsmen bestow their hearts and tongues on such vanities, and most often also on the obscenities of theatrical stories, while their hands do not cease from their work? What hinders, then,
