---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 565
pdf_page: 621
sortable_pagination_id: 621
---

the servant of God who works with his hands to meditate on the law of the Lord and to sing praise to the name of the Lord Most High? So indeed, that for learning things which he may recall from memory he should have times set apart. For this purpose, too, those good works of the faithful that supply what is needed for necessaries ought not to be lacking, so that the hours during which one has leisure for forming the mind in such a way that bodily work cannot be done do not press him into want. But those who say they devote themselves to reading — do they not find there what the apostle commanded? What perversity is this, then: to be unwilling to comply with the reading while wishing to devote oneself to it, and, in order that what is good may be read for a longer time, to refuse to do what is read? For who does not know that the more quickly a person does what he reads when reading good things, the more quickly he makes progress?

## XVIII. 21.

If, however, some person must dispense the word and this so occupies him that he has no leisure for manual labor, can all in the monastery do this — to explain the divine readings to brothers who come to them from another way of life, or to dispute profitably about certain questions? Since, then, not all can do this, why do all wish to be free from work under this pretext? And yet even if all could, they ought to do so in turn — not only so that the others might not be kept from necessary work, but also because it is sufficient for one to speak while many listen. Then, how could even the apostle himself have had leisure to work with his hands, unless he set apart fixed times for dispensing the word of God? Nor did God wish
