---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 567
pdf_page: 623
sortable_pagination_id: 623
---

thians. Although he could have worked at other hours and at night as well, since he was so vigorous in both soul and body. But after he left Athens, let us see what scripture says. “He argued,” it says, “in the synagogue every Sabbath” — this at Corinth. In Troas, then, where the necessity of his impending departure caused the discourse to be prolonged until midnight, it was the first day of the week, which is called the Lord’s Day; from which we understand that he was not with the Jews but with Christians when the narrator himself also says they had assembled to break bread. And that very governance is most excellent — that all things, distributed to their proper times, be conducted in orderly fashion, lest they disturb the human mind by entangling it in turbulent complications.

## XIX. 22.

There too it is told what the apostle did for his trade. “After these things,” it says, “he departed from Athens and came to Corinth. And finding a certain Jew named Aquila, a Pontic by birth, recently arrived from Italy, and his wife Priscilla, because Claudius had ordered all Jews to leave Rome, he came to them, and because of their shared trade he stayed with them and worked; for they were tentmakers.” If anyone attempts to interpret this allegorically, they reveal how they have advanced in the ecclesiastical writings to the study of which they boast of devoting themselves. And certainly those words cited above — “Is it only Barnabas and I who have no right not to
