---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 569
pdf_page: 625
sortable_pagination_id: 625
---

## XX. 23.

Here another question arises. For someone might say: “What then? Did the other apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas, because they did not work \[with their hands\], either place an obstacle to the gospel, or sin? For blessed Paul said that he himself had not made use of this right, lest he give any hindrance to the gospel of Christ. If they sinned because they did not work, then they had not received the right to refrain from working but only to live from the gospel. But if they had received this right — the Lord having ordained that those who preach the gospel should live from the gospel, and having said, ‘The worker is worthy of his food’ — a right of which Paul, giving something more generously, chose not to make use — then surely they did not sin. If they did not sin, they gave no hindrance. For to hinder the gospel is surely no trifling matter.” If this is so, they say, “we too are free both to make use of and to refrain from making use of this right.”

24. I would resolve this question briefly if I were to say — and I would say it justly — that one must trust the apostle. For he himself knew why the gospel should not be hawked for sale in the churches of the Gentiles, not faulting his fellow apostles, but distinguishing his own ministry; because they had divided among themselves — without doubt at the prompting of the Holy Spirit — the provinces for evangelizing, so that Paul and Barnabas would go to the Gentiles, while the others would go to the circumcision. Yet the things already said at length make clear that he laid down these precepts for those who did not possess a right of this kind.

## XXI.

But these brothers of ours rashly claim for themselves, as I judge, a right of this kind. For if they are evan-
