---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 570
pdf_page: 626
sortable_pagination_id: 626
---

gelists, I grant that they have it; if they are ministers of the altar and dispensers of the sacraments, they do not rashly claim but plainly vindicate this right for themselves.

25. If at least they had possessed something in this world by which they could easily have sustained this life without manual labor — which \[property\] they distributed to the needy upon their conversion to God — then their weakness is to be believed and borne. For such men are accustomed — not, as many suppose, to have been more finely bred, but, as is the truth, to have been brought up more softly — so that they are unable to bear the labor of bodily work. Perhaps many such were at Jerusalem. For it is written that they sold their estates and placed the proceeds at the feet of the apostles, to be distributed to each as there was need. Because they were found nearby and proved useful to the Gentiles, who were being called from afar from the worship of idols — in accordance with what was said, “Out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem” — the apostle called the Christians from among the Gentiles their debtors. “They are debtors to them,” he says, and he adds the reason: “For if the Gentiles have shared in their spiritual things, they ought also to minister to them in material things.”

## XXII.

But now, for the most part, men come to this profession of the service of God from the condition of slavery — or even as freedmen, or as those who have been or are to be freed by their masters for this purpose — and from a rural way of life, from the practice of trades and from plebeian labor; so much the
