---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 571
pdf_page: 627
sortable_pagination_id: 627
---

more fortunate by just so much as they have been more vigorously trained. If these are not admitted, it is a serious fault — for many from that number have proved truly great and worthy of imitation. For it was for this reason that God chose the weak things of the world to confound the strong, and the foolish things of the world to confound the wise, and the ignoble and the things that are not, as if they were, so that the things that are might be brought to nothing — that no flesh should glory before God. \[1 Corinthians 1:27–29\] This pious and holy consideration causes even such men to be admitted who have brought no evidence of a changed and improved life. For it is not right to investigate which of the two drove them to commit to the service of God — whether they came to flee a life of poverty and labor, wishing to be fed and clothed at others’ expense and moreover to be honored by those by whom they had been accustomed to be despised and trodden down. Such men, therefore, since they cannot excuse themselves from work on grounds of bodily weakness — for the habit of their former life convicts them — take cover under the shadow of bad discipline, scheming to pervert the apostolic precepts by a misunderstood reading of the gospel. They are truly birds of the air, but in lifting themselves up through pride, and truly grass of the field, but in their carnal understanding.

## XXIII. 26.

For there befalls them what the same apostle says must be corrected in idle younger \[widows\]: “for they learn at once to be idle; and not only idle, but also busybodies and gossips, saying what they ought not.” \[1 Timothy 5:13\] This he said of
