---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 572
pdf_page: 628
sortable_pagination_id: 628
---

he was saying to wicked women — which we too lament and bewail in wicked men, who, against that same apostle in whose letters we read these things, say idle and wordy things that are not proper to say. And those who, with the purpose of pleasing the one to whom they have proved themselves, came to that holy warfare — being so vigorous in bodily strength and sound in health that they are capable not only of being trained but also of working according to the apostle — are, except for the idle and corrupt talk of these men, which by reason of inexperienced novitiate they are unable to judge, changed into the same vice by pestilential contagion. They not only fail to imitate the obedience of the saints who work quietly and live in the most wholesome discipline of other monasteries according to the apostolic rule, but they even insult those who are better, preaching sloth as the guardian of the Gospel, and accusing mercy as its transgressor. For one who looks after the good reputation of the servants of God acts with far greater mercy toward the souls of the weak than one who breaks bread for the hungry acts toward the bodies of the needy. Therefore, would that those who wish to keep their hands idle were idle with their tongues as well! For they would not invite so many to imitate them if they set before them not only lazy examples, but also silent ones.

## XXIII. 27.

Now indeed they cite the Gospel of Christ against the apostle of Christ. For so wonderful are the works of the idle that they would hinder the Gospel, which the apostle commanded \[his followers to work\] precisely so that the Gospel itself might not be hindered.
