---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 574
pdf_page: 630
sortable_pagination_id: 630
---

they have surpassed. For when famine threatened, and was foretold in advance by the prophets who were then present, devout believers sent grain from Greece — from which I believe those \[in Jerusalem\] made bread for themselves, or at any rate arranged for it to be made: which is something birds do not do. But if these men, as I was beginning to say, have already surpassed even those \[Jerusalem believers\] by some degree of righteousness, and conduct themselves in all matters pertaining to the sustaining of this life exactly as birds do, let them show us human beings serving birds as they themselves wish to be served — except for birds that have been caught and confined, which are not trusted \[to fly free\] lest they not return. And yet those \[birds\] prefer to enjoy their freedom and take from the fields whatever is sufficient, rather than accept food set out and prepared for them by human hands.

## 28.

Those, then, will surpass these men by another and higher degree of righteousness, who have so ordered their lives that they go out daily into the fields as if to pasture, plucking whatever they find at the moment, and return home once their hunger is stilled. But surely, on account of those who guard the fields, how good it would be if the Lord would deign to grant them wings as well, so that servants of God found in another’s fields might not be seized as thieves but merely chased off like starlings. As things stand, one who cannot be caught by the hunter will imitate a bird as best he can. But suppose all servants of God grant that these men may go out into their fields whenever they wish and depart safely and refreshed — just as the law commanded for the people of Israel that no one should detain a thief in his fields unless the thief wished to carry something away; for one who had touched nothing beyond
