---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 575
pdf_page: 631
sortable_pagination_id: 631
---

what he had eaten was to be allowed to go free and unpunished. This is why the Jews brought charges against the Lord’s disciples who were plucking ears of grain on account of the sabbath rather than for theft. But what is to be done about those seasons of the year when food that can be eaten immediately is not found in the fields? Whoever attempts to take something home to cook and prepare for himself will hear, according to the interpretation these men draw from the Gospel: “Put it down; for birds do not do that.”

## 29.

But let us grant even this: that throughout the whole turning year one can find in the fields — whether from trees, or from plants, or from various roots — something that can be eaten raw; or that one might exert the body so vigorously that even foods requiring cooking can be consumed raw without harm; and that one can go out to forage even in the harshest winter conditions. And so let it be that nothing is taken home prepared, nothing set aside for the next day. Still, those who shut themselves away from human sight for many days at a time, admitting no one to their presence and remaining enclosed in great earnestness of prayer, will not be able to observe such a rule. For these men have been accustomed to shut themselves in with food — simple and cheap as it is — sufficient for those days during which they have resolved to be seen by no one: which is something birds do not do. And the practice of these men, in so admirable a continence — since they have the leisure to pursue such things and commend themselves for imitation not with arrogant pride but with merciful holiness,
