---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 576
pdf_page: 632
sortable_pagination_id: 632
---

propose themselves as models for imitation — these I not only do not reproach, but I cannot praise as much as they deserve. Yet what do we say of them according to the understanding of those people from the words of the gospel? Perhaps the holier they are, the more unlike birds they are, since unless they store up food for many days they will not be able to shut themselves away as they do? And yet they hear along with us: “Therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow.” \[Matthew 6:34\]

## 30.

Therefore, to sum it up briefly: those who, by a perverse understanding of the gospel, strive to overturn such manifest apostolic precepts must either not be anxious about tomorrow, as the birds of the air \[do\], or they must obey the apostle, as beloved children — or rather, let them do both, since both are in harmony. For Paul, the servant of Christ, would not advise things contrary to his Lord Jesus. This, then, we say to them plainly: if you understand the birds of the air in the gospel to mean that you should not procure food and clothing by working with your hands, then store up nothing for tomorrow either, just as the birds of the air store up nothing. But if storing something up for tomorrow can be not against the gospel — where it is said, “Behold the birds of the air, for they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns” \[Matthew 6:26\] — then it can also be not against the gospel, and not against the example of the birds of the air, to pass this life of the flesh with the labor of bodily work.

## XXIIIII. 31.

For if they are pressed from the gospel to store up nothing for tomorrow, they answer most rightly: why then did the Lord himself
