---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 577
pdf_page: 633
sortable_pagination_id: 633
---

have a money-bag in which to keep the funds that had been collected? Why was grain sent to the holy brethren so far in advance of an impending famine? Why did the apostles provide for the needs of the saints against future want, so that the most blessed Paul wrote to the Corinthians in his letter: “Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I directed the churches of Galatia, so you also are to do. On the first day of every week, each of you is to set something aside and store it up, as he may prosper, so that there will be no collecting when I come. And when I arrive, I will send those whom you accredit by letter to carry your gift to Jerusalem. If it seems advisable that I should go also, they will accompany me.” \[1 Corinthians 16:1–4\] These and many other things they set forth most copiously and most truly. To whom we reply: you see, then, that although the Lord said, “Do not be anxious about tomorrow” \[Matthew 6:34\], you are not compelled by these words to keep nothing in reserve for tomorrow. Why, then, do you say that you are compelled by these same words to be idle? Why are the birds of the air not an example to you for keeping nothing in reserve, and yet you wish them to be an example for doing no work?

## XXV. 32.

Someone may say: what benefit is it to the servant of God that he has abandoned his former pursuits in the world and turned to this spiritual life and service, if he must still ply trades as craftsmen do? As if it could easily be explained in words how great the benefit is that the Lord
