---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 580
pdf_page: 636
sortable_pagination_id: 636
---

Yet tasks must be found for them in the monastery — even if somewhat freer from manual labor — but they must be managed with watchful care, so that even they do not eat their bread for nothing, since it has now become common property. Nor should attention be given to which monasteries or in which place a man has spent what he had on brothers in need. For there is one commonwealth of all Christians. And therefore, whoever has dispensed necessities to Christians anywhere, wherever he also receives what is necessary for himself, he receives it from Christ — because wherever he too gave to such people, who was it but Christ who received? But those who, even apart from this holy fellowship, spent their lives in bodily toil — from whose number the greater part come to monasteries, as they are the greater part of the human race itself — if they are unwilling to work, neither shall they eat. For it is not for this reason that the rich are humbled to piety through Christian service, in order that the poor may be lifted up in pride. For it is in no way fitting that in a life where senators become laborious, craftsmen should become idle; and that where those who had been lords of estates come, having left their pleasures behind, there rustic men should live delicately.

## XXVI. 34.

But the Lord says: “Take no thought for your life, what you shall eat, nor for your body, what you shall wear.” Rightly so, since he had said above: “You cannot serve God and mammon.” For one who preaches the Gospel for this reason — in order to have something to eat and something to wear — thinks that he serves God at the same time, because he preaches the Gospel, and mam-
