---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 588
pdf_page: 644
sortable_pagination_id: 644
---

we cannot excuse ourselves, even if we are of no account, because he wished even such persons to be appointed \[as judges\] if wise men were lacking, rather than that the affairs of Christians should be brought into the forum. Yet this burden we take up not without the Lord’s consolation, in hope of eternal life, so that we may bring forth fruit with patience. For we are servants of his church and especially of its weaker members, whatever members we may be in that same body. I pass over countless other ecclesiastical cares that perhaps no one believes unless he has experienced them. We do not, therefore, bind heavy burdens and lay them on your shoulders while we ourselves will not touch them with a finger — since, if we could do so while keeping the integrity of our duty (he who tests our hearts sees this), we would rather do what we urge you to do than what we are compelled to do. Indeed, for all of us — both you and us — who labor according to our respective rank and office, and who rejoice in hope even amid toil and hardship, his yoke is easy and his burden light, he who called us to rest, who first made the crossing through the valley of weeping, where even he himself was not without tribulations. If you are our brothers, if you are our sons, if we are your fellow servants or rather, in Christ, your servants, hear what we admonish, acknowledge what we command, receive what we dispense. But if we are Pharisees who bind heavy burdens and lay them on your shoulders, do what we say, even if you disapprove of what we do. As for us, it is a very small thing to be judged by you or by any human tribunal. Let him inspect with what genuine charity we are concerned for you —
