---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 589
pdf_page: 645
sortable_pagination_id: 645
---

who gave what we might offer for his eyes to behold. In the end, think of us as you will: the apostle Paul commands and beseeches you in the Lord, that you eat your own bread in quietness — that is, peacefully and obediently, living in due order. Nor, I think, do you believe anything evil of him, and in him who speaks through him you have believed.

## XXX. 38.

These things, my dearest and most venerable brother Aurelius in the bowels of Christ, regarding the work of monks — as much as he who through you commanded me to do it has granted me the ability — I have not delayed to write, taking greatest care that good brothers, obedient to the apostolic precepts, should not be called transgressors of the gospel even by the slothful and disobedient: so that those who do not work may at least not doubt that those who do work are to be preferred to themselves. For the rest, who could bear with men stubbornly resisting the most wholesome admonitions of the apostle — being tolerated not as the weaker brethren but even celebrated as the more holy — so that monasteries founded on sounder teaching should be corrupted by a twin enticement: both the dissolute license of idleness and the false name of holiness? Let the rest of our brothers and sons therefore also know — those who are accustomed to favor such persons and through ignorance to defend this kind of presumption — that they themselves above all need to be corrected, so that those others may be corrected too, and lest they \[thereby\] be weakened in doing good. As for what they do in promptly and eagerly supplying the servants of God with necessities, we not only do not reproach it, but embrace it most warmly — only let them not, through a perverse mercy, harm those men’s future life more than they relieve their present one.
