---
reading: augustine-monks
page: 590
pdf_page: 646
sortable_pagination_id: 646
---

39. For it is a lesser sin if the sinner is not praised in the desires of his soul, and the one who has done iniquity is not blessed.

## XXXI.

But what is more iniquitous than to wish to be obeyed by one’s inferiors while refusing to obey one’s superiors? I speak of the apostle, not of ourselves — so much so that they even grow out their hair; regarding which he did not wish there to be any dispute at all, saying: “But if anyone wishes to be contentious, we have no such custom, nor do the churches of God.” But this I command: that the dexterity of the debater not be sought, but the authority of the one commanding be heeded. For to what end, I ask, does one so openly wear one’s hair against the apostle’s precepts? Is idleness to be so thoroughly pursued that not even barbers may work? Or because they say they imitate the birds of the gospel, do they fear being plucked, lest they be unable to fly? I fear to say more about this vice on account of certain long-haired brothers, in whom besides this one thing we venerate much — indeed almost everything. But the more we love them in Christ, the more anxiously we admonish them. For we do not fear that their humility will reject our admonition, since we too desire to be admonished by such men wherever we ourselves happen to stumble or go astray. This, then, is our admonition to these holy men: not to be moved by the foolish argumentations of the vain, and not to imitate them in this perversity — men from whom they differ greatly in all else. For those men parade
