---
reading: aquinas-summa-simony
page: 352a
pdf_page: 384
sortable_pagination_id: "384.1"
---

# Question One Hundred on Simony, Divided into Six Articles

Next we must consider simony. Concerning this, six questions are raised. First: what is simony? Second: whether it is lawful to receive money for the sacraments. Third: whether it is lawful to receive money for spiritual acts.

## Article One.

Whether simony is the deliberate will to buy and sell something spiritual or something annexed to the spiritual. With regard to the first we proceed as follows. It seems that simony is not the deliberate will to buy and sell something spiritual or something annexed to the spiritual. For simony is a kind of heresy: for it is said in \[*Decretum*\] I, q. 1: “More tolerable is the impious heresy of Macedonius and those around him who attack the Holy Spirit, than that of the simonists. For the former, by deliberation, acknowledge the Holy Spirit as a creature and servant of God the Father and the Son: but the latter make that same Holy Spirit their own servant. For every lord, if he wishes, sells what he has: whether a slave, or any other thing among his possessions.” But unbelief does not consist in the will, but rather in the intellect, as does faith also, as is clear from what was said above. Therefore simony ought not to be defined through the will.

2. Moreover, to sin deliberately is to sin from malice, which is to sin against the Holy Spirit. If therefore simony is the deliberate will to sin, it follows that it is always a sin against the Holy Spirit.

3. Moreover, nothing is more spiritual than the kingdom of heaven. But it is lawful to buy the kingdom of heaven: for Gregorius says in a certain homily: “The kingdom of heaven is worth as much as you have.” Therefore it is not simony to wish to buy something spiritual.

4. Moreover, the name of simony is taken from Simon Magus, of whom we read in Acts 8 that he offered money to the Apostles to buy spiritual power — namely, that whoever he laid hands on would receive the Holy Spirit. But we do not read that he wished to sell anything. Therefore simony is not the will to sell something spiritual.
