---
reading: aquinas-summa-simony
page: 360a
pdf_page: 392
sortable_pagination_id: 392.1
---

## Article Four.

Whether it is lawful to receive money for things annexed to the spiritual. With regard to the fourth we proceed as follows. It seems that it is lawful to receive money for things annexed to the spiritual. For all temporal things seem to be annexed to spiritual things, since temporal things are to be sought for the sake of spiritual things. If therefore it is not lawful to sell things annexed to spiritual things, it will be lawful to sell nothing temporal. But this is clearly false.

2. Moreover, nothing seems more annexed to spiritual things than consecrated vessels. But it is lawful to sell them for the ransom of captives, as Ambrosius says. Therefore it is lawful to sell things annexed to spiritual things.

3. Moreover, the right of burial, the right of patronage, and the right of primogeniture seem to be annexed to spiritual things according to the ancients (since firstborn sons, before the \[Mosaic\] law, performed the office of priest); and likewise the right of receiving tithes. But Abraham bought from Ephron the double cave for burial, as is recorded in Genesis 22 \[*recte* Gen. 23\]. Jacob bought from Esau the right of primogeniture, as is recorded in Genesis 25. The right of patronage also passes with the sale of the property and is granted as a fief. Tithes have also been granted to certain soldiers and can be redeemed. Prelates sometimes retain for a time the fruits of prebends they confer, even though prebends are annexed to spiritual things. Therefore it is lawful to buy and sell things annexed to spiritual things.

But against this is what Pope Paschalis says, found in \[*Decretum*\] I, q. 3, cap. *Si quis obiecerit*: “Whoever among them has sold one without which the other does not come, has abandoned neither one \[unexchanged\].” Let no one therefore buy a church, a prebend, or anything ecclesiastical.

I respond that it must be said that something can be annexed to spiritual things in two ways. In one way, as dependent on spiritual things: just as holding ecclesiastical benefices is said to be annexed to spiritual things because it belongs only to one who holds clerical office. Hence things of this kind can in no way exist apart from spiritual things. And on this account they can in no way lawfully be sold: because, when they are sold, the spiritual things themselves are understood to be subjected to the sale.

But some things are annexed to spiritual things insofar as they are ordered toward spiritual things: such as the right of patronage, which is ordered toward presenting clerics for ecclesiastical benefices; and sacred vessels, which are ordered toward the use of the sacraments. Hence things of this kind do not presuppose spiritual things, but rather precede them in order of time. And therefore
