---
reading: aquinas-summa-simony
page: 360b
pdf_page: 392
sortable_pagination_id: 392.2
---

they can be sold in some manner, but not insofar as they are annexed to spiritual things.

To the first, therefore, it must be said that all temporal things are annexed to spiritual things as to an end. And therefore the temporal things themselves may indeed be sold: but the ordering of them toward spiritual things ought not to fall under a sale.

To the second it must be said that sacred vessels too are annexed to spiritual things as to an end. And therefore their consecration cannot be sold: nevertheless, for the necessity of the Church and the poor, the material of which they are made can be sold; provided that, after a prayer has been offered, they are first broken apart; because after their breaking they are understood not to be sacred vessels, but pure metal. Hence if from the same material similar vessels were to be remade, they would need to be consecrated again.

To the third it must be said that the double cave which Abraham bought for burial is not said to have been ground consecrated for burial. And therefore it was lawful for Abraham to buy that land for the purpose of burial, so as to establish a tomb there: just as it would also now be lawful to buy some common field to establish a cemetery or even a church there. Because, however, even among pagans places set apart for burial were considered sacred, if Ephron intended to receive a price for the right of burial, he sinned in selling: though Abraham did not sin in buying, because he intended to buy only common land. It is also lawful now to sell or buy land where a church once stood, in a case of necessity: just as was said concerning the material of sacred vessels. Or Abraham is excused because by this he redeems his own trouble. For although Ephron was offering him the burial place freely, Abraham perceived that he could not receive it freely without giving offense to him.

Now the right of primogeniture was owed to Jacob by divine election, according to that text of Malachi 1: “Jacob I have loved, but Esau I have hated.” And therefore Esau sinned in selling the birthright: but Jacob did not sin in buying it, because he is understood to have redeemed his own trouble.

Now the right of patronage cannot be sold by itself, nor given as a fief: but it passes with the estate that is sold or granted. But the spiritual right of receiving tithes is not granted to laymen; rather only the temporal things given under the name of tithes are granted, as was said above.

Concerning the conferral of benefices, it must be known that if a bishop, before he offers a bene-
