---
reading: aquinas-summa-simony
page: 361a
pdf_page: 393
sortable_pagination_id: 393.1
---

fice to anyone, has for some reason ordered that something be deducted from the fruits of the benefice to be conferred and spent on pious purposes, this is not unlawful. But if from him to whom he offers the benefice

### Commentary of Cardinal Caietanus.

In article four a doubt arises: whether ecclesiastical benefices may lawfully be sold by authority of the Pope. But because we have discussed this sufficiently in our first *Quodlibet* — in the matters grounded on this article, where it is said that the clerical right to which a benefice is annexed is spiritual — I therefore pass over it. See there, if you wish.

One doubt nonetheless remains. Because in exchanges of benefices where one is given in return for another, it is lawful, by the authority of superiors, for money to be given by the less wealthy party, so that the exchange may be brought to equality of temporal income: as is found in \[*Decretales*\] Extra, *de Rerum Permutatione*, cap. *Ad quaestiones*. From this there arises a twofold doubt. The first is: as the ratio of part to part is, such is the ratio of the whole to the whole. But for the part in which the temporal income of one exceeds \[that of the other\], it is lawful to demand money. Therefore, if one of those benefices has no income whatsoever, it will be lawful to give money for the entire prebend of the other. And thus it follows that a whole prebend, or the income of a benefice, could be sold, by the authority of a superior, by exchanging two benefices of which one has nothing temporal and the other has something. It is therefore false what is said in the text, that things of this kind annexed to spiritual things can in no way lawfully be sold.

The second \[doubt\] is that, although lesser prelates cannot \[do this\], the Pope nevertheless could, frauds being absent, for a reasonable cause, in exchanges of spiritual titles, grant to the entire income of one \[benefice\] that money should correspond in place of the income of the other, which has nothing. Since only temporal things, as such, would be appraised, by him who has the power to establish new law.

The first response is the safer one: insofar as for a title having income, something is owed by the very right of the incomes; and on this account, not everything ought to be matched by money as the principal correspondent. I do not, however, reject the second: on account of the fullness of Papal power, and the singular law which it can establish.

III. To the second doubt, however, which is directly against this response, it is said that there is a sophism there. For although whatever can be given to another can be given to the Pope,
