---
reading: aquinas-summa-simony
page: 361b
pdf_page: 393
sortable_pagination_id: 393.2
---

require that something be rendered to him from the fruits of that benefice, it is the same as if he were exacting some other gift from him, and it is not free of the vice of simony.

not, however, in the same manner, nor for the same reason: just as whatever sight can do, the intellect can also do, but not in the same manner nor for the same reason. In the matter at hand, therefore, it can lawfully be given to one who exchanges \[benefices\], because he exchanges, or is treated as one exchanging, a stipend appointed for him. The Pope, however, does not stand as one exchanging or quasi-exchanging a stipend appointed for him: but rather stands as one selling the stipends appointed for the ministers of churches.

Together with these points, it nevertheless stands that the Pope, in another way — for instance, by way of union to his own table, or of a charitable subsidy — could, for a reasonable cause, apply to himself the revenues of a vacant church, and afterward alienate them, as need requires and the reasoning of ecclesiastical piety advises.

IV. In the same article, concerning the deeds of Jacob, a doubt arises, because Jacob appears inexcusable. First, because it is a mark of inhumanity to refuse food already prepared to a weary brother.

Secondly, because he induced Esau to sin by purchasing the birthright for himself. For Esau was not ready for this in the way a usurer stands ready for usury: but he was induced to it by Jacob saying: “Sell me the birthright,” Genesis 25.

Thirdly, because Esau was not harassing Jacob with respect to the right of primogeniture, but possessed it peaceably by natural right, as the firstborn. And on this account there was no room here for the redemption of harassment, which is adduced in the text: for it is lawful to give in order to redeem harassment — namely, in order to be given back one’s life, liberty, right, benefice, etc.

V. To this it is said that because God had revealed to Rebecca, as is clear from the same passage, that the elder would serve the younger; and it is reasonable that she had revealed all things to her beloved son Jacob: it follows that Jacob, certain of the right of primogeniture that it would be his by divine election, wished to redeem from Esau — as from one occupying his right — his own trouble, at that moment when he could conveniently make use of another’s iniquity for the acquisition of his right. Hence although Esau sinned (as not only the text says, but also the Apostle, in Hebrews 12, saying: “Lest anyone be a fornicator, or profane, as Esau, who for a single meal sold his birthright”), Jacob is nonetheless excused. And first, from inhumanity. Both because he seemed motivated not by necessity but by pleasure \[*i.e., Esau’s desire for the food*\]. And because it is the mark of a prudent man to withhold something of his own right when he hopes, through such withholding, to recover what is his.

Secondly, he is excused from inducing \[another\] to sin: no less than one who offers money to the occupier of his ecclesiastical benefice. For this is not to induce to sin: but to offer redemption, according to the truth, not only to one already disposed \[to sin\], but to one actually sinning by unjustly withholding \[what is another’s\]; even if according to the manner of speaking, and according to outward intention, it is otherwise. Hence when Jacob said “Sell me the birthright,” the meaning was: “Give me the birthright, which in truth is mine. Since you are unwilling to give it freely, I offer a price,” etc. For in this sense all redemptions of harassment are to be understood. Indeed in every redemption two things are found: one lawful, which the one redeeming seeks — namely, that his life, liberty, right, benefice, etc., be given back to him; the other iniquitous, which the one redeeming does not seek but suffers (even though he acts after the manner of one with power, because he offers the material of that iniquity to one ready for that iniquity, or a greater, or perhaps not a lesser one), namely the acceptance of the price. Not
