---
reading: panormitanus-decretals-simony
page: 78rb
pdf_page: 155
sortable_pagination_id: 155.2
---

he was notorious and a notorious criminal does not celebrate \[the sacraments\] without a dispensation.

Regarding expenses, add the following. And \[regarding\] the exercise of his order, as I said above following Hostiensis: for infamy removes the exercise of any dignity whatsoever and takes away an honorable benefice. And it carries its effect through. On the question whether one can be a witness in a cause in which he was a mediator, see Se. in *c. Cum nobis*. He would speak less well if he said otherwise, for the giving of surety does not change a malevolent disposition, as in *Institutiones, de suspecto tutore*. And this is especially so if he is a bishop who is a perjurer. On the gloss at the word *indifferenter*, at the end, concerning the tutor, see Platim. in *c. Cum deputati*, at the penultimate column, above, *de iudicis*. And say as I said in *c. Quoties*, above, at the same chapter: then the gloss would state the matter so strictly. But then in the final gloss, and declare the end of this chapter as I said, because there it is more clearly held that exceptions were admitted.

The pope replies that he intends to proceed by way of inquisition, because the benefice has devolved; this cleric is bound to show the title of his benefice. The cleric responds by requesting that a formal complaint \[*libellus*\] be presented to him, since he is in peaceful possession of the benefice. And the bishop replies that he intends to proceed by way of inquisition, because the benefice has devolved. In the final gloss, and declare the end of this chapter as Hostiensis concludes: this cleric is bound to show his title without any presentation of a formal complaint, nor is an appeal admitted to the contrary — just as an appeal is not admitted against a correction, in *c. Ad nostram* \[2\], *c. Reprehensibilis* \[*de appellationibus*\]. So too no appeal lies from this act, which is carried out on the occasion of correction. For if he does not have a title, he holds the benefice in sin and deceives the souls of his parishioners, as in *c. Dudum* \[el. 2, *de electione*\]. Likewise because this inquisition into title can be conducted even in general as part of the judge’s office.
