---
reading: ames-conscience-4.25
page: 65
pdf_page: 241
sortable_pagination_id: 241
---

Secondly, in a church already constituted, with its approval, provided that disorder is avoided and proper order maintained, 1 Corinthians 14:23ff., Acts 13:15. For it belongs to the edification of the church that those who excel others in gifts should exercise those gifts before others, so as to help and stimulate them.

4. 3. Yet for someone to usurp the proper duty of a minister without a special calling is altogether unlawful, Hebrews 5:4, Titus 1:5, Jeremiah 14:14.

First, because a singular separation by God is required, Acts 13:1, 20:28, Romans 1:1.

Secondly, an undertaking of a singular and weighty function is required, of which God himself is the author and administrator, Ephesians 4:11, 1 Corinthians 12:5–6, Matthew 9:38.

Thirdly, a singular assurance of God’s assistance is required.

Fourthly, a singular expectation of blessing from God is required, Matthew 28:20.

Fifthly, singular faithfulness and eagerness are required, 1 Timothy 4:14.

Sixthly, it is requisite that the congregation to which he is to minister be assured of the will of God by which he has appointed such a person as their minister, so that they may submit to him in conscience, Hebrews 13:17.

Seventhly, it is requisite that proper order be observed, 1 Corinthians 14:40.

## Question 3. What Qualities Are Necessarily Required in One Who Is to Be Called to the Ministry?

5. *A.* 1. Such integrity of life that he is not only free from scandal, but also possesses a good reputation, 1 Timothy 3:7. By reputation here is meant the favorable opinion others hold of his uprightness, demonstrated through his honest and godly conduct.

6. 2. Knowledge and competence in the doctrine of Christ above the common level of believers, 2 Timothy 3:16–17. To this must also be added an understanding of those things that pertain to his office in governing the church, 1 Timothy 3:16.

7. 3. Some facility in teaching — that is, in communicating to
