---
reading: ames-conscience-4.25
page: 67
pdf_page: 243
sortable_pagination_id: 243
---

refute those who contradict \[the truth\] (Titus 1:9), which cannot be done by reading and reciting.

13. 4. He ought to surpass the Church in those gifts which all believers are to cultivate and seek (1 Timothy 4:13–14, etc.); and all believers ought to strive that the Word of God dwell in them richly (Colossians 3:16).

14. 5. No man can discharge the office either of an advocate or a physician by reciting prescribed forms. Now a Minister is a spiritual advocate and physician.

## Quest. 4. Whether it is lawful to desire the Ministry?

15. *A.* 1. To seek a place in the Ministry for gain or the profit it may bring with it is plainly to be condemned. For this is to regard gain as godliness (1 Timothy 6:5).

16. 2. To desire the work of the Ministry out of desire and zeal to edify the Church and to glorify God is pious and praiseworthy (1 Corinthians 16:15; 1 Timothy 3:1).

17. 3. To offer oneself to the judgment of others to be tried and approved for the Ministry is in no way contrary to the honor of the Ministry.

18. 4. He who has a good testimony of his fitness for the work of the Ministry may, without offense of conscience, modestly offer his services to any Church (Isaiah 6:8), for God presents such persons to the Churches.

19. 5. Yet to press one’s own calling importunately and to procure it by cunning is utterly unbecoming in one who is rightly disposed toward the Ministry (2 Corinthians 2:16).

20. 6. To thrust oneself upon a Church by fraud and violence against their will is plainly a diabolical act.

21. 7. To come to the office of the Ministry as to something subject to buying and selling is simony. For the office of the cure of souls is the gift of God, communicated properly by God alone; and therefore to purchase that office is in kind and in the nature of the thing identical with what Simon did (Acts 8).

22. 8. Simony is committed not only by a gift from the hand, when money is given to procure such an office, but also by a gift of service, which is rendered and yielded to any
