---
reading: ames-conscience-4.25
page: 68
pdf_page: 244
sortable_pagination_id: 244
---

any person for that end; and also by a gift from the tongue, when a position is obtained through intercession and petitions, such that worthiness is not the principal consideration.

## Quest. 5. Who have the right and power of calling Ministers?

23. *A.* 1. The supreme right of calling belongs to Christ alone, who is the Head of the Church, the Author of the Ministry, and the Lord of the Ministers.

24. 2. The delegated right cannot properly reside in Diocesan Bishops, or Patrons, or Magistrates as such, because Christ, who ordained the Ministry, has prescribed nothing specific regarding those orders, has communicated no new right to them, and has left his Church well ordered without them.

25. 3. The delegated right belongs to that whole Church which the Minister to be called must serve.

For, first, Ministers are given by Christ to the Church, so that by the same ordinary and certain means they may be obtained by every Church. But if vocation were to depend upon others, the Church would often be destitute of a certain means of procuring Ministers for itself, and so such a Church would be constituted by Christ that would not be sufficient in itself.

Secondly, if the right of calling were in the power of others, then the Church would not receive her Ministers immediately from Christ, but from those in whom this right resided.

Thirdly, otherwise it could not be that the Church would always freely submit herself to her Ministers — which in the Ministry is no less necessary than in Marriage.

26. 4. This right of Calling remains so properly in the Church that it can neither be taken away by the authority of another, nor lost by voluntary grant, nor be wholly committed to the fidelity of another. For the act of the Church is a cause necessarily required for an ecclesiastical calling.

27. 5. Yet various actions pertaining to calling may be entrusted to others, and ordinarily ought to be performed by the principal members of the Church, or the Presbyters. And
