---
reading: ames-conscience-4.25
page: 69
pdf_page: 245
sortable_pagination_id: 245
---

And the responsibility to ensure that all things are done rightly belongs to the Magistrate.

Quest. 6. What is the act in which Vocation properly consists?

28. *A.* Vocation properly and essentially consists in election. For first, that voluntary relation which exists between the Minister and the people can have no other foundation than voluntary election.

Secondly, a free Church, retaining her liberty, cannot be subjected to anyone except by free election.

Thirdly, all those acts which pertain to vocation either tend toward election — such as nomination, presentation, and examination — or depend upon election, such as ordination, institution, or induction, which is nothing other than the completion of election and a solemn declaration, as the Coronation of a King or the Inauguration of a Magistrate; and so it is customarily used metonymically for election or vocation.

Quest. 7. Where the freedom of election is diminished by Bishops, Magistrates, or Patrons, what kind of Calling results?

29. *A.* Although election may not be free in the manner and degree it ought to be, yet a voluntary consent — as in Marriage, so in the Ministry — though procured by unjust means, retains the essence of an election and vocation.

Quest. 8. When many are fit, who among them is to be elected?

30. *A.* 1. He who is judged most fit in the conscience of the elector, when well-informed — because to do otherwise would be an acceptance of persons, which, being displeasing to God, ought to have no place in divine matters. But this is to be understood as follows: first, that comparison be made among those who may conveniently be had.

31. 2. That he be judged most fit who, though he may be simply and absolutely inferior \[in some respects\], is yet found fittest in relation to that particular Church for which a Minister is sought, when all circumstances are considered.

Quest. 9. Whether a man may be called to the Ministry for some certain term of years?

32. *A.* 1. That this should be expressed, or directly included
