---
reading: ames-conscience-4.25
page: 70
pdf_page: 246
sortable_pagination_id: 246
---

included in the calling is utterly repugnant to the nature of the ministry. For first, a minister does not properly devote his labors to the church, but to Christ. Now Christ has nowhere revealed his will concerning a definite law of ministry.

Secondly, such a calling diminishes the affection and care of a minister toward his people, and of the people in return toward him.

Thirdly, it also lessens the dignity of the ministry, inasmuch as it makes it appear mercenary, at least in outward show.

Fourthly, it brings with it various dangers, both to the minister and to the people. For in this way the minister may be dismissed without just cause, and the people may be forsaken at an inopportune time.

33. 2. Yet that it should be understood implicitly — \[namely,\] a power of obtaining an honorable dismissal upon some condition, the necessity of which may arise from the circumstances either of the one called, or of those doing the calling, or of the church in general — there is nothing that absolutely forbids this.

## Quest. 10. Whether may one rightly called to the ministry afterward leave off the ministry?

34. A. 1. It is not lawful for any one to attempt this at his own will.

First, because he is bound to God in that calling, and may not without God’s commandment forsake his station.

Secondly, he is also bound to the church, not by a human, but by a divine covenant. And he can no more forsake the church than be forsaken by it.

35. 2. Yet if such a circumstance arises that renders him unfit for the ministry, or makes the exercise of it impossible, or lays upon him a necessity of sinning in the exercise of it, then by God’s allowance he appears to be released from the ministry.

## Quest. 11. Whether it be lawful for a minister to go from one church to another?

36. A. It is one thing to go from one to another, another thing to be transferred or removed. He may not go of his own accord so long as the foundation of his former calling remains; but he may be removed by the judgment of other churches.
