---
reading: apostolic-constitutions-6.9
page: 326
pdf_page: 391
sortable_pagination_id: 391
---

in the gospel. And engaging him a third time before the same witnesses in a dispute concerning the prophet and the sole sovereignty of God, I defeated him by the power of the Lord, struck him dumb, and drove him as a fugitive into Italy. 2 (IX). Arriving in Rome, he wreaked great havoc upon the church, overturning many and drawing them to himself, and astonishing the nations by his skill in magic and the working of demons — so that on one occasion, coming out at midday into their theater and ordering the crowds to seize me as well, he proclaimed that he would fly through the air. 3. While everyone was on edge with anticipation, I was praying by myself; and indeed, lifted up by demons, he flew aloft through the air, declaring that he was ascending into the heavens and would from there supply them with good things. But while the crowds were cheering him as a god, I stretched out my hands toward heaven with my whole mind, and implored God through Jesus the Lord to shatter Simon and cut off the power of the demons who were employing it for the deception and destruction of men — to dash him down but not to kill him, only to shatter him. 4. Then, collecting myself, I fixed my gaze and said to Simon: “If I am a ‘man of God,’ a true apostle of Jesus Christ and a teacher of piety — not of error, as you are, Simon — I command the wicked powers of the apostate from piety, upon which Simon the Magician is borne aloft, to release their hold, so that he may be brought down from the height to the ridicule of those he has deceived.” When I had said this, Simon, severed from the \[supporting\] powers, was brought down with a great crash; and being dashed violently, his hip and the soles of his feet were shattered. 5. And a voice from the crowds cried out: “There is one God, whom Peter rightly proclaims with truth alone!” And many turned away from Simon, though some, being worthy of his perdition, remained devoted to his wicked teaching. 6. And so the most godless heresy of the Simonians was first planted in Rome, and through the remaining false apostles the devil was at work.
