---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "100"
pdf_page: 141
sortable_pagination_id: "0100"
---

of whatever age or bond they may be, who on account of servile fear or temporal advantage hold their peace in the cause of God and the Church. But in another sense, every person who sins mortally, insofar as he withholds assistance against the simoniacal heresy, is to be regarded as a simoniac by consent; for, as I have often said, virtues and vices are alike interconnected, and thus God, who is not stained by simony or heresy, \[speaks\] concerning his called Church. And the first part of the first proposition set forth is clear.

But for the second part it is to be noted that the heresiarchs have decreed that no one is to be reckoned a simoniac unless this has been proved before them according to their traditions, as they say, in lawful form; and then, when a person has been convicted of simony or heresy, they burn him or kill him by other means, or else compel him — if he is unwilling — to purchase from them the simoniacal guilt imputed to him. But if the accused is willing to buy his guilt from them in a manner pleasing to them, he departs acquitted, attested by them as immune and clean, even though by his simoniacal heresy he has purchased from them the simoniacal stain and \[thereby become\] the sinful part of the Church. It is established that bishops and prelates, for money or for the written petitions of lords, institute \[candidates\] with authority, even though they believe or have doubts about whether they were not previously worthy; and that they know, thoroughly, by their own laws, that both the person thus appointed by this means and the one who authorized the appointment by this means, and likewise the lord who interceded and mediated to this end, each incurs the simoniacal leprosy in this very act. And so he neither wishes to show mercy to his own soul nor to his neighbor’s, but like a blasphemous heresiarch he precipitates himself and others blindly \[into ruin\]; we ought therefore likewise to flee from such a one. Likewise, on account of a judgment thus sophisticatedly rendered by such persons, a man is neither more nor less a simoniac — unless perhaps he has been infected by their blind sophistry. But since the infection is against the universal Church, it must be extinguished; there remains therefore a different judge than this Church so infected; for although she ought to judge concerning heresy, since she ought to examine her own conscience by first purging herself of simoniacal depravity, yet on account of her own guilt she is unfit to serve as a public judge, for in that case she would first have to burn herself. Therefore Christ says in Matthew 7: “Hypocrite,
