---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "101"
pdf_page: 142
sortable_pagination_id: 142
---

“Cast out first the beam from your own eye, and then you will be able to cast out the speck from your brother’s eye” — and there are many laws to this effect, both divine and human. For just as one afflicted with jaundice does not judge accurately concerning colors, so a judge infected with a stain will not reckon that stain a sin in others, but will rather foster it. Just as therefore the simoniac sins against the universal Church and against each of its members — who is bound to recognize that sin — so the person of the universal Church, since it is the superior and most capable, ought to take cognizance of such a sin. Nor is great industry required for this; rather, any person whatsoever, even a heretic or a harlot, upon recognizing the sin, ought to extinguish it by every way and means, as is evident in Book V of the Decretals, title *De Symonia*, chapter *Tanto*; for otherwise the simoniacal heresy could infect the whole Church before a leprous simoniac would expel it from the camps. Therefore it is ordained in the law of the Lord that the priests who are to judge concerning leprosy must be clean, as is evident with respect to judgment in Leviticus 13, and with respect to another \[matter\] in Leviticus 21, since otherwise they would subvert judgment — as the two elder priests judged Susanna in Daniel 13. Therefore Moses is taught by his kinsman Jethro in Exodus 18:20 to provide from among all the people able men who fear God, in whom there is truth and who hate avarice, to judge the people. Likewise, to judge thus concerning heresy or simony, a precious knowledge of the Scriptures is required; but the aforesaid satraps are commonly ignorant of this law, and therefore also ill-disposed to judge concerning heresy in this manner. Nor does their ignorance excuse them because they can call upon clerics or scholars of the law of God for this purpose, since the emperor equally can and ought \[to do the same\] in order to convict even the pope of the heresy of depravity.

It is required therefore that the judge have inflexible power corresponding to God the Father; it is required secondly that he have conscience in the fear of God corresponding to
