---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "102"
pdf_page: 143
sortable_pagination_id: 143
---

the humanity of Christ, and thirdly it is required that he have knowledge corresponding to the divinity of the Truth, and fourthly it is also required that he have pure benevolence corresponding to the Holy Spirit — and then he will hate avarice. These four conditions are required in a judge, as is evident from the faith of Scripture. For otherwise, a satrap could condemn a man to death on account of a truth of Scripture that displeases him, which a faithful person defends in a Catholic manner. For thus the high priests judged Christ to the most shameful death as the supreme heretic, since \[they deemed him\] a blasphemer; it is written in John 19: “We have a law, and according to the law he ought to die” — and that law is evident in Leviticus 24, where the Lord commands the blasphemer to be led out and stoned by the whole people. But it is certain that these wicked judges failed in all four of those conditions and therefore erred on every point in their judgment. But note that the people ought to have stoned the blasphemer, because the whole people ought to know the law of God and to vindicate his injury as the worthier party, as I have often said in the common sermon on heresy: the faith of Scripture, since it is the specular rule for judging concerning heresy, and every man ought to know it — indeed, all men and each one individually ought to confound heretics by destroying heresy, and especially manifest simoniacal heresy, as far as they are able. Just as therefore the high priests, themselves the greatest heretics, condemned our Lord Jesus Christ for heresy, so the high priests of Antichrist can condemn and destroy the members of Christ for the reason that they in a Catholic manner reprove their sins and preach how the Church can be lawfully assisted by the divestment of temporal goods. The whole Church therefore ought to rise up against those elders who appear to govern the people, when, drunk with avarice, they simoniacally procure for themselves false pastors against the salvation of the people and the faith of the Gospel.
