---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "13"
pdf_page: 54
sortable_pagination_id: "0013"
---

— by a kind of vomiting they cast him out, and second because they bite back at the members of Christ who in a healing and keen manner rebuke them out of charity, gnawing at them in name and body — and so everywhere the people remain as dry bones without marrow and without spiritual strength.

Likewise, in proportion as a sin is more contrary to the law and divine ordering, by which God was acquiring the Church for himself out of the hand of the devil, by so much is it more wicked; but such is simony, therefore, etc. For God ordained a law by which the champions of his lot — that is, the clergy — would assimilate the laity to themselves; but simony is directly contrary to this. For where God says in Matthew 10, “Freely you have received, freely give,” the simoniac defends the contrary: that one ought not to give a spiritual gift of God except in return for temporal recompense or gain; and thus blasphemy, apostasy, and all the vices of the world are committed, because simony is directly contrary to the root of the virtues; and therefore it is no wonder that simony, as directly contrary to so virtuous a principle, causes the greatest loss of members of the Church. Therefore Petrus notably says in Acts 8: “May your money perish with you.” Therefore Parisiensis says that the simoniac strives, above Christ, to break down the door of the house of God — which was prefigured in Genesis 19, when the Sodomites wished to break down the door of the house of Lot. This \[sin\] is more dangerous than sodomy, because iniquity, doubled by the simulation of holiness, is committed more cunningly with respect to a more sacred matter. And hence Christ, the guardian and shepherd of the Church, said he is its door in John 10, to signify that through him the house of God is guarded and the entries of his own are the more diligently watched. And hence it is said in John 20 that he entered with the doors shut to his disciples, to denote that the entry of prelates ought to be kept closed against simoniacs. And hence in Exodus 12 the Lord decreed that both doorposts of the gate should be marked with the blood of the lamb — as if to say: I abjure \[simoniacs\] by the power of the blood of the Lamb of God, by which blood
