---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "17"
pdf_page: 58
sortable_pagination_id: "0017"
---

sells at a light price the most spiritual things to creatures, it is clear that the said definition is not a good definition of simony; moreover, that every body is annexed to something spiritual is evident from the fact that every body is annexed to justice, which is the most spiritual thing of all. And from this it appears that judges and advocates who illicitly sell justice commit simony repeatedly. All such instances are resolved by the fact that simony is a disordered act of will; I neither concede nor contradict this position that says every person trading unjustly — however secular the matter — commits simony insofar as he buys or sells justice in a disordered manner. For simony in its generality follows equally upon mortal sin.

Thirdly, the definition appears to apply to the apostles and to every priest, when they exchange a spiritual suffrage for a temporal stipend, as the apostle teaches in 1 Corinthians 9 concerning what the law of God requires: “If we have sown spiritual things among you, is it a great matter if we reap your carnal things?” Nor could the Church otherwise survive. And the same appears to apply to priests who deliberately work to receive a plentiful stipend. But this is resolved by the fact that simony is a disordered act of will. Hence the apostles showed by their deeds that in them there was an ordered will, because they sought the salvation of souls more than temporal stipend; for they sometimes labored with their hands and received temporal alms from the people transiently and sparingly, precisely as much as was necessary for them and useful to the people for the repayment of spiritual ministry. Hence it seems to me beyond doubt that whenever a cleric receives an offering \[*benediccionem*\] from the people with an intention or measure other than the grace of spiritually edifying them, he is to be judged a simonist, because he exchanges dignity or order in a disordered way for temporal payment; nor does it matter whether this exchange takes place in vulgar commerce or however tacitly, provided that
