---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "22"
pdf_page: 63
sortable_pagination_id: 63
---

and free from venality of assent, let a pure election be brought forth, so that one elevated to the highest priesthood may be believed to have advanced not by the votes of sellers but by the judgment of God. But if money was promised or paid entirely without the knowledge of the elect or ordained, and he arrived at election or ordination by no such means, it appears in no way to be harmful to him nor to pertain to the charge of guilt — for he had no guilty conscience — nor does it pertain to the voiding of the election or ordination — which it is shown he did not arrive at through the corrupt greed of those persons.” Nor does it avail anyone to play the sophist with God — whether by claiming to have been duly ordained or by claiming to have willed \[things\] in proper order — so as to obtain \[the favor of\] the one offended, because he will be damned unless by amendment and by satisfaction in the completion of his office he purge what he previously sinned. For all of us are liable in the obtaining, in the receiving, and in the execution of an ecclesiastical benefice; there would remain nothing but despair for those persons, unless afterward in the perfection of a curate’s office there followed a contrite purging.

But here it is doubted whether a simoniacal benefice-holder is bound to restore the goods of the poor and to relinquish that benefice.

And it seems that he is, because such a one unjustly takes away the goods of the poor, and according to the principle of Augustinus, sin is not forgiven unless what has been taken away is restored, as I have elsewhere expounded and defended at length. Here there is no doubt that every simonist must make satisfaction for all and each of the goods of the Church he has received — or else be damned. Then it seems to me that he will never make satisfaction unless he serves the perfection of that duty most patiently and devoutly before his end. And thus it must be for every king or temporal lord; it is not necessary, however, that he give the whole of the abuse back to the clergy and to the poor who have been otherwise wronged, but it is sufficient that he be contrite for what he has done and by living virtuously thereafter make satisfaction to the supreme Lord. For he asks nothing temporal of us but that we restore to his poor what is owed them and use the remainder
