---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "24"
pdf_page: 65
sortable_pagination_id: "0024"
---

subverted by temporal endowment, because both office and affection are perverted from the ordering which Christ instituted. For we studiously seek the temporalities annexed to office and worldly honors, but we abhor the humble and simple ministry which Christ instituted; to covet an abundant provision of temporalities in order to minister more liberally to the needy is to studiously seek the office of a layman, and the simony of the Church will not cease until this has been separated \[from the spiritual office\].

Thirdly, it is doubted whether it is lawful to go to the Roman Curia for ecclesiastical benefices. And it seems not, because whoever goes thus has a deliberate and disordered will that spiritual goods be exchanged for temporal ones. Whoever goes thus is a simonist, as is clear from what has been said — therefore, etc. Who, I ask, labors more studiously and thoroughly than such a Rome-goer? Nor can it be concealed by any evasion that he does this more for temporal advantage than for the ministry of God or for the benefit of souls. There is no doubt that he thrusts himself forward importunately, because — as it is said — there is no human exertion more continuous or more restless in body or mind. And it is plain that such a person thrusts himself forward; for however unfit he may be, there is no benefice of his district, however great the burden of its cure, that he would shrink from if it be fat. But with little regard for the cure — the fatter, the more welcome. Since therefore, according to the aforesaid law of the blessed Gregorius, every such person is beyond doubt to be rejected, it follows that every such person is unfit for the cure or governance of souls. I pass over, moreover, the other petty illicit dealings he makes with cardinals — for a place as chamberlain, of which there are very many — but I know for certain that by offering himself and thereby giving occasion to more weighty persons to commit greater simoniacal heresy, he implicates himself all the more criminally. Nor is there reason why papal law, savoring of profit, should be believed, taught, and defended as the Gospel, since by the same token and by greater \[reason\] the sayings of the saints, and especially of this most holy pope, in this matter
