---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "25"
pdf_page: 66
sortable_pagination_id: 66
---

concerning simony are grounded in the Gospel. Nor is there reason why it is lawful to expend bodily labor in directing a person on account of the Church to go to Rome, when it is more colorably lawful to confer at home a purely temporal thing upon a more fit person, the patron remaining quietly at home, since a quiet occupation at home better disposes one to the ministry of God. In this it appears — since no one takes honor upon himself but he who is called by God as Aaron was — that whether a cleric goes in person or even sends rotuli \[petitionary rolls\] of studies to the pope for ecclesiastical benefices, he thereby makes himself unfit for the ministry of God. Many students, however — and priests more student-like than priestly — after such simoniacal heresy have been purged by the way of contrition and of completion of their ministry through the grace of God. But returning to the principal doubt, it seems to me that it is forbidden for a prince to occupy secular lordship or any other ecclesiastical patronage, because unless he advances a more fit person, or at least prudently intends to do so, he is blocked from exercising patronal lordship; if he puts aside the more fit person before God for the sake of money or bodily service, or for human favor such as kinship or affinity, or flattery, or the entreaty of men, then \[God help\] the one so occupying the patrimony of Christ; hence it is difficult, and alien to worldly gain, to occupy such a patrimony meritoriously.

Thirdly, the principal argument is made against the aforesaid definition on the grounds that every simony appears to be an external act, and therefore is not generally a disordered act of will. This is confirmed first by the fact that otherwise a man would sin by disordered willing of ecclesiastical prelacy as gravely as by performing a simoniacal external act — which is contrary to reason and to the penalties assessed for the crime. It is confirmed secondly by the fact that every simony is a heresy, every heresy is a false doctrine contrary to sacred scripture and defended as such, therefore simony is of this kind — which does not apply to the act of willing. It is confirmed thirdly by the fact that no sin is an act of willing or anything positive; every simony is the gravest sin; therefore no simony is a \[mere\] act of will. To these it is said that the school of theologians uses equivocal language both in the name
