---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "27"
pdf_page: 68
sortable_pagination_id: 68
---

or as a sin-offering. But because acts of the soul are most fully known to us, and consequently it is necessary for the Church to have knowledge of simoniacal heresy, it therefore speaks of it reasonably as an act; yet to that act there is inseparably conjoined both the defect of sin and a vicious habit. Hence, as Parisiensis \[William of Auvergne\] tells it, simony is healed with difficulty, like leprosy: first, because that crime is deep, subtly fortified by the wiles of the devil, through which he primarily seduces the people; secondly, because the simonist must resign the benefice he acquired, at least so long as the person’s unfitness for that office endures; and that is very difficult, since the greater part of the possessioned clergy — or all of them — would have to surrender their possessions into lay hands and live according to the state which Christ instituted in the primitive Church. But this leprosy has so prevailed among clerics that they would sooner cast body and soul into Gehenna. Hence the simonist is like a fish caught in the vessel of the devil, who on account of the continuous inundation of sin does not return through the opening by which he entered, nor can he suffice to break the net or escape capture by another way; therefore such a one has, as it were, one foot already placed in hell. Therefore the Wise Man says pointedly in Ecclesiastes 4: “Keep your foot when you enter the house of the Lord”; and Jeremiah 17: “The sin of Juda is written with an iron stylus and with a diamond point, engraved upon the breadth of their hearts.” Juda, which is interpreted as “confessing,” signifies our clergy, who confess to know God above others and to follow him in confecting the Eucharist and in multiplied oblation for alms on behalf of the living and the dead — which they had received in monstrous fashion; and there is no falser confession, since they deny it in their deeds by lying. Therefore it is no wonder that it is said that simoniacal sin is deep and wide, written as if indelibly. For who can heal hearts so widely cauterized? It is impossible for us, since the clergy is the heart of the people, which we are not permitted to touch; and as the apostle says in 1 Timothy 4: “they have their cauterized
