---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "31"
pdf_page: 72
sortable_pagination_id: 72
---

of those who follow, \[namely\] that the worthier candidate with respect to scholastic graduation ought to be preferred. But not even this removes the blasphemy of the law, nor does it justify the papal declaration, since often an ungraduated person is more holy and more capable for the governance of souls. The third kind of simoniacal heresy that may affect the pope is a disordered will to install parish priests in the Church for the sake of temporal advantage, and that simony is able to infect Christendom in countless ways far too extensively. And through these considerations the solution to the first Luciferian conclusion is evident, by denying it on account of its excessive deference. And as for the ill-formed argument, it is evident that God alone is the lord who cannot sin, to whom it belongs to use his own things however he wills. And as for the minor premise, it is evident that the pope, by virtue of his pre-eminence, holds an evangelical title to the use of all temporal goods of the Church militant, nor is this a cause for display, since any person living more justly than the pope holds a truer title; but beyond this title of guarding the Church, of ministering, governing, and dispensing the Church’s goods according to the Gospel — which is very far removed from a mode of domination — in this the pope can easily err. For to preach, administer the sacraments, and pray is the proper work of office, but to dispense or administer temporal goods is the lower ministry of a Levite or the office of a layman. And it is plain how nakedly it is assumed that any Roman bishop has the care of the Church as his bride. Since therefore it is in doubt whether \[the pope is truly\] the anointed one, who alone is the bridegroom of the Catholic Church, it is doubtful for the pope — as for others living with him — not merely whether he is the head, but indeed whether he is even a member of any church at all, since only the predestined is a member of Holy Mother Church, as is here supposed. Let the pope therefore consider how Christ and Petrus his vicar involved themselves in the temporal goods of the Church: for Christ said, Luke 12 \[v. 14\]: “Who appointed me judge or arbiter over you?” And in Acts 3 \[v. 6\] it was said: “Silver and gold have I none; but what I have, that I give to you.” The pope must be the dispenser of the heavenly treasury — that is, of grace and virtue — not of dung.
