---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "32"
pdf_page: 73
sortable_pagination_id: "0032"
---

And it is evident that the pope, by contending over the collation or domination of worldly goods, degenerates; and consequently there is a topical argument that if the pope claims such lordship over the Church’s goods, he is partitioning them unjustly and illicitly as an improvident steward thereof. And if without violation he claims to hold lordship over all the goods of the Church his bride, then he is the noonday demon and the chief disciple of antichrist. For what has such a one to do with the bride of Christ — is he therefore as sinless as God? Let one consider, I ask, the origin \[of the matter\]: how would a priest contract impeccability or authority so great in his capacity as Roman pontiff? It is certain that he does not have this from God, and it would be remarkable if he had it from Caesar. Let him therefore fear, humbling himself as the deputy-father of the bride of Christ, and be diligent to minister in spiritual things, having relinquished the entanglements of temporal goods.

But the question is raised first, whether it belongs to the pope, as true patron, to dispense all ecclesiastical benefices of the kingdoms of Christendom that are in mortmain. And it seems not, first because the commission of the governance of the kingdom given to the king by God constitutes for him all things necessary to that purpose that lie within his power. But it is supremely necessary for the governance of the kingdom to have circumspect pastors who rule the people according to God, as is evident here and in *De Officio Regis* \[Wyclif’s treatise on the office of the king\]; since therefore it lies within the power of the king to provide for this, it follows that the king has this care committed to him by God. And this seems to be the mind of the Church from the decree of the Council of Toledo, which is placed under C. 16 q. 7 in these words: “We decree that as long as the founders of churches survive in this life, they themselves shall present to the bishop for ordination suitable clergy and appropriate rectors for those same basilicas — taking care to avoid an unstable clerical appointment. But if, in contempt of those same founders, the bishop presumes
