---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "33"
pdf_page: 74
sortable_pagination_id: 74
---

to ordain \[someone\], let him know his ordination to be void, and let others be ordained in their place whom the founders themselves shall have chosen as worthy.” From this most sacred decree it is evident that, since the Roman bishop is the preeminent bishop, it is a contempt toward kings for him to ordain in their kingdoms prelates who are incapable, since from this are begotten members of the devil. And if the Roman bishop attempts to install in the kingdoms cardinals or other prelates who are useless to the kingdom, it is for the kings, under pain of losing their earthly kingdom, and under the pretext of the heavenly kingdom, to dissolve such simoniacal arrangements, and before he attempts to invade foreign kingdoms, to make prudent provision in their own kingdoms against this danger. But alas, if our kingdom is instructed and has something good for a time from the Holy Spirit in that regard, and if it has discreetly enacted evangelical ordinances to annul this heresy, antichrist immediately assails \[it\] through our pseudo-clerics, and even that which he dismantles and dissolves he declares to be holy. How then shall the kingdom stand? In truth it can be sustained for a time by former \[good\] origins, but it is necessary by faith in Scripture that it will in short order be subverted, either bodily or spiritually, like Nineveh. Since therefore this papal provision concerning benefices of our kingdom has no force except by our blind and illicit acceptance of it, let us employ at least the caution of the Scottish kingdom, smilingly \[reporting that\] we have heard that the pope has conferred upon his cardinals the richer benefices of our kingdom — but that \[they shall\] not have the fruits of the benefices unless they are willing to expend them within the kingdom for its benefit. For the king and kingdom can do this, and must make it their first Catholic intention according to evangelical and royal law. Nor need one fear excommunication or censure or malediction on that account, but the king and kingdom should fear the blessing of simoniacal heretics whom they thus foster. For according to the saints their malediction would be a blessing turned about, and vice versa — as even the coarser politicians will perceive. In ecclesiastical benefices there are two things: namely, the spiritual ministry toward God, and the temporal appurtenances of the kingdom toward the world; but first
