---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "34"
pdf_page: 75
sortable_pagination_id: "0034"
---

pertaining to God and ministerial in its discharge by the bishop, \[the second part\] is recognized as pertaining principally to the office of the king. But the king must make special provision for all things belonging to his office, insofar as they pertain to the worship of God, as I said above from the testimony of blessed Gregorius in the Register, book 2; therefore it is for kings to discharge that office with authority in the name of the Lord. For otherwise the king of England would be no more than the petty ruler of part of the kingdom, and the Roman pontiff or, in evidence of him, his archbishop would be the superior and more fruitful lord of our kingdom — but this is an implausible notion. I therefore suppose that our king, in donating to each of his churches whatever alms — whether movable or immovable — reserves for himself the capital lordship \[over them\], because otherwise he would extinguish his kingdom. And from this the assumed premise is evident: that spiritual care can stand by itself without a temporal endowment, and vice versa. For thus it was in the time of Christ and the Apostles and long afterward until Urbanus, as the Cestrensis \[Ranulf Higden\] relates in book 4, chapter 48; and from that time onward an endowment may exist without a spiritual ministry, in major prelates as much as in minor ones — nor will our subtle disputants on signs dissent, who say they believe that in the sacrament of the altar an accident remains without a subject. Since therefore temporal benefice is not granted to clerics except for the sake of spiritual care and ministry, it is evident that it belongs to kings to withdraw what is theirs when the cause fails, since neither God nor man can give anything to anyone without the implicit condition attached to the person being understood. It is therefore for patrons, and for all kings, to attend to this condition, because according to this bond by which the arms of the Church are joined together — and otherwise a dissoluble clergy could be so subverted as to attend entirely to gross temporal things and to defer too much or entirely the life-giving spiritual ones.
