---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "36"
pdf_page: 78
sortable_pagination_id: 78
---

to the spiritual patrimony in conformity with the law of Christ; and if he \[the bishop\] should himself prove perverse and avaricious, the remaining part of the Church ought to ordain in this matter according to the final will of the first patron Christ, which is manifest in his testament. Hence patronage is the form by which someone is formally called a patron, and in its nature it is not a corporeal thing — since it is neither an object, nor is it that corporeal thing which the patron donates to the church — but a certain spiritual power for providing care over the alms previously given. And patronage is said in one respect to be a spiritual patrimony by its end, and in another respect corporeal, although in both cases there is a conjunction \[of the two\]. But now the cultivators of signs have prevailed and both kinds of patronage are perverted: for laymen buy and sell patronages like oxen, irregularly and for gain — whereas by the law of nature the people ought to elect the worthier candidate, and all those who petition \[for office\] thereby subject themselves to the world. This is an all-too-harsh form of patronage, just as it is falsely imagined that Christ, in blessing the bread in the sacrament of the altar, is himself an obsequious patron. Nor did the saints in the primitive Church act in this way, but \[acted\] by the consent of the people — from which a good election ought to take its remedy — as is evident at D. 63, c. *Plebs*, and in many other chapters, and at C. 1 q. 1, *Ordinationes*, and C. 1 q. 1, c. *Si quis*, as appears in the immediately following chapter. Nor is there any reason why this law for the justice of the people should not be observed today. It is necessary, however, that whatever defects arise in the election of a superior be corrected through the expertise of the Church \[*imperitiam*: likely scribal error for *peritiam*\], and not by the patron; for by such \[patron-driven\] deliberation, in place of remedying the defect of the community or people, the adoption of the elected one is turned into the jaws of the devil. To the patron it therefore belongs to govern his patrimony for the better.
