---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "39"
pdf_page: 81
sortable_pagination_id: 81
---

for it was said to him that he should render service to God by laboring, so that wherever he found men of this kind, he should bring them in chains to Jerusalem; and in the mouths of those same priests they were called benefactors, because they enlarged his fields and possessions. Let the secular lords therefore recall the twofold penal blindness of Paulus and his twofold illumination, from which followed, by both his conduct and his preaching, the confusion of the Jews; and from the teaching of the Holy Spirit let them act similarly. Let them recall, I say, how the Church is being led astray by sophistry — with the sacrament of the Eucharist and of penance, and thirdly with the alms of temporal benefice, which in practice is malefice, dissolving the religion which Christ instituted. Hence there are today many well-worn speculative positions in the matter of the sacrament of the altar, which teach prophetically that this irreligious attachment to temporal goods inheres in the Church. It is dogmatized, I say, by the cultivators of signs, that whoever denies the sacrament of the altar to be an accident without a subject is to be judged as a heretic; and so likewise whoever denies that the adjacency of temporal goods with which the Church is endowed is not of the essential perfection of the Church — \[that is, whoever asserts that such temporal endowment is not essential\] — is also deemed a heretic. Whoever secondly denies that divine worship — even latria — is not to be exhibited to an accident without a subject \[i.e., whoever refuses to worship the accident of the consecrated bread\], is deemed a heretic; and correspondingly whoever denies that the merit of beatitude corresponds proportionally to the quantity of the temporal good adjacent to the Church, is judged a heretic in like manner. But thirdly, just as those who subtilize about signs, having abandoned Scripture and the ancient doctors, rely on recent modern \[doctors\] who freely teach their arbitrary doctrine — so those who magnify the endowment of Caesar, having abandoned the doctrine of Christ and the fathers of the primitive Church, rely on human authority and the caesarean papacy. Hence the subtler proponents of that position say that only the determinations of Innocencius III together with his accomplices establish this faith. And truly
