---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "41"
pdf_page: 82
sortable_pagination_id: "0041"
---

The said Innocencius, were he still living today, could have ten thousand prelates who would all consent to this three-membered blasphemy: that it would be more religious to endow the clergy’s church more abundantly than to live without such possessions in a state of pure non-proprietary poverty as Christ did; that the active life of the propertied is far more perfect than the contemplative life of those without property; and that the present caesarean endowment is as necessary as the power of working miracles was in the primitive church. But the faithful person knows that it does not follow: if the pope, together with a million prelates and doctors, even solemnly teaches this, that it is therefore true — indeed, all of these would be regarded by the faithful as fugitives suspect of the simoniac leprosy, and consequently of heretical depravity.

## CHAPTER IV.

Further, it appears that the pope, in distributing ecclesiastical benefices and other spiritual gifts, can commit simony. For the pope can imprudently do this in exchange for temporal recompense, and according to what has been said he is thereby a simoniac; therefore the conclusion follows. Hence a sign of simoniac heresy in the pope would be his amassing for himself the conferral of all such benefices in an unwarranted and extraordinary manner. For the apostles, without any contention for pre-eminence or recourse to Petrus, appointed presbyters or bishops impartially; by what warrant, then, is it necessary to have recourse to Rome for this purpose? The reason is indeed dead, just as Petrus died in Rome. This position is clear from the treatise De Papa. For if human rule is deficient in appointing superiors,
