---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "42"
pdf_page: 84
sortable_pagination_id: 84
---

Likewise, the person who has greater interest in the matter — by reason of more evident knowledge, more particular almsgiving, and the more precious medicine to be received — ought to assist in approving such an election; such a person is not the pope with respect to contracts unknown to him, but the people to be governed; therefore such a papal election is beside the point. How, I ask, does the pope know the character of the person, or who is more capable to preside as bishop over a particular people? Or how will the pope compel a layman to give his alms to a person he believes to be unfit? Or how will he be compelled to receive spiritual medicine — in which the everlasting health of both body and soul must reside — from that father whom he believes to be unfit? And if the pope is absent and fails in these matters, what benefit does he derive from the revenues? And this seems to be the position of the blessed Hieronymus on Leviticus, placed at C.8 q.1: “It belongs to the Lord God,” he says, “to appoint a priest for himself; because even though the Lord himself had chosen him, the congregation is also summoned. There is therefore required in the ordaining of a priest also the presence of the people, so that all may know and be assured that the one who is most excellent among all the people, who is most learned, who is most holy, who is also most eminent in every virtue, that person is chosen for the priesthood — lest, with the people attesting to this, any retraction or scruple might remain afterwards. This moreover is what the apostle also commands in the ordination of a priest, saying: ‘Moreover he must have a good testimony from those who are outside.’ I see, however, something further in what is said: ‘because Moses assembled all the congregation’ — so that this may be a sign of gathering together all the soul’s powers, which within itself constrain unlawful impulses, into virtues — so that when a discourse concerning priests and sacraments is held, all the virtues of the soul may be wakeful and attentive; let nothing be lacking in them of wisdom, nothing of knowledge, nothing of diligence, but let all be present in abundance.” It therefore appears that the entire assembly of sacred thoughts \[should be gathered\], so that what a bishop ought to be, what a priest of the people ought to be, may always be meditated upon and treated.
