---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "45"
pdf_page: 86
sortable_pagination_id: 86
---

as was said above. And the same is taught at C.8 q.1, cap. In scripturis, from the Register of the same blessed Gregorius: “Just as,” he says, “the office of governance must be denied to those who desire it, so it is to be offered to those who flee from it.” But now, with this holy law which Christ teaches in Matthew 20 concerning the sons of Zebedee held in contempt, the agent of Lucifer waits and waits again until the benefice is given to the one — however more unfit — who is willing to offer the most and the most promptly.

Arise now, O kings! Understand, awakening from the lethargic sleep into which you have been lulled by pseudo-clerics, and drive out from your kingdoms the heresy of simony — for otherwise there will without doubt be disturbance for you on every side, and no true peace. Acknowledge that the governance of kingdoms has been entrusted to you by God, and consequently the rule of the people according to the ordinances of his law. Therefore forbid your lieges to seek thus the wellspring of simony and the chief school of the devil — not only because persons of the kingdoms, and especially of England, have been cut down above all by enemies in this matter, and the treasuries of the kingdoms have been exhausted through hidden treachery, but most especially because through this ruin the simoniac leprosy occupies your kingdoms in manifold ways. For if a small band of enemies or a leprosy infecting a kingdom were to invade it, who would doubt that a king remiss in expelling such enemies should be blamed? He is infinitely more culpable before God, without doubt, in that he permits the said simoniacs to invade his kingdom. For they defile the kingdom with spiritual contagion — especially the kings and secular lords by reason of their consent — and the more gravely so in that, with prosperous ease, by denying that such persons are his lieges, the king can exclude them and effectively declare all their advocates enemies and traitors to the kingdom. But then the king and kingdom must, as was said in the treatise De Rege, foster the study of the law of God and provide theologians with the care of spiritual governance, guarding as against poison against promoting to it clerics on account of their service to him in secular affairs. For as such they are
