---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "46"
pdf_page: 87
sortable_pagination_id: 87
---

more unfit, and for that reason those promoted are in turn more infected with simony on the other side. And whoever shall say that it pertains to the royal prerogatives of the king to promote his household servants in this manner says implicitly that the king is not a king but a tyrant, a heretic, and the foremost recruit of antichrist. Nor will the king be deprived on this account of priestly service, because all the revenues of the kingdom that are in the hands of the clergy would be sufficient to provide capable priests for his household; he would doubtless take those into his own hands, and sustain priests serving him — without hope of advancement to spiritual care on account of that service — from those revenues. And all these things lie in the hands of the kingdom: \[will\] those who remain silent in dissuading this simoniac heresy of both arms defend the position that it is less evil for this simony to multiply in the kingdoms than for \[the kingdom\] to take governance into its own hands? That would be a Judas-like seizure of power — those who, with feigned almsgiving, would bring destruction upon clerics. For this \[reclaiming of revenues\] would be to restore the clergy to the dignity of the estate that Christ instituted; and otherwise it is the most abominable heresy, which Christ in the temple, as an angry king, destroyed — giving example undoubtedly to his members, and especially to kings, to do likewise, since they ought to follow Christ especially in this. Nor ought the faithful person to fear the thunderbolts of excommunication in this matter, because a curse pronounced for this cause does not have the force of a blessing; and beyond this, God’s curse in this matter shall descend, because the despisers of the intention of God’s law servilely \[make a show of rectifying\] their own almsdeeds and those of their predecessors, \[claiming to act\] according to the law of God. And this is the position of the holy doctors and the laws of the Church, and especially of the holy Pope Gregorius.

But returning to the subject, an objection is raised from the ordinary gloss on C.8 q.1, and on the saying of the blessed Hieronymus in cap. Licet ergo, which holds, with the gloss of Hugo, that it is sufficient in the election of a prelate
