---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "47"
pdf_page: 88
sortable_pagination_id: 88
---

that he is good in the case where he is from the community, but when an outsider is elected, he ought to be the very best. Against this poisonous gloss it is argued first by the fact that the Holy Spirit says that the one most excellent among all the people should be chosen for the priesthood — which the doctor glosses implicitly to mean that not the most excellent or most holy, but in a given case one more abject in virtue should be chosen — so that, given that one more remiss in virtue is chosen from the whole community, the election is then made as it ought to be according to the gloss. From this follows the perverse conclusion of the glossator, and it is evident that the gloss corrupts the rule of election. Likewise, I take it as given that by “good” is meant morally good, because otherwise it would suffice in a given case to elect a donkey. For thus one must soundly understand the gloss with its foundations when it says that by that very fact a person is good insofar as he is not evil — that is, a person is then good when he is not morally evil — because, as logicians argue, otherwise every good person would necessarily be absolutely good. With that supposition established, and having taken the apostle’s dictum “There are varieties of graces” \[1 Corinthians 12\] as already set forth, I suppose thirdly that a simple ignorant man unfit to be a bishop is installed in a cathedral church with a vacant bishopric, and that all the electors consent in choosing him, who in their opinion elect lawfully. But the contrary is evident from the case, since they elect an unfit person who ought to flee that burden — just as a simple married layman ought to refuse a canonry, notwithstanding that he is very good and is elected by the pope or the chapter. Therefore every election that God does not approve is unjust; but God does not approve every election in which the person more capable for the office is not elected; therefore every such election is unjust. The major premise is evident from the fact that no such election is necessary \[i.e., infallibly valid\], but if it is lawful, God principally elects through the created elector as his instrument. But since God cannot sin, it appears that by the very fact that God chooses anyone while setting aside others, that person is simply more capable, because more capable with respect to God. Hence, on account of such deformity from the divine will, the decree of Hieronymus appears to say, as it is cited
