---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "48"
pdf_page: 90
sortable_pagination_id: 90
---

of the church, but who also enacts laws governing superiors contrary to the divine will, acts foolishly, since he could easily be relieved of this by elections valid under the common law; nor is it to be supposed that a man having free choice between this ambiguous or openly bad path on the one hand and God’s secure path — proceeding by first electing the one elected by God — on the other, would escape the Lord’s reproof for his foolishness. Nor can this law be grounded on the claim that by the very fact that the greater part of the electors consented to an irreproachable person, or by the very fact that prior papal bulls concerning a provision or an ecclesiastical office render the named person more acceptable; for he \[the pope\] grants \[office\] with such authority that God reproves him and would render that person unfit for such a ministry. Therefore if a man acts against his conscience — even in a just matter — he sins gravely, as the apostle makes plain in Romans 14; much more does a man act against sincere wisdom and the divine will. But every elector who acts contrary to the will of God does this; therefore in this he sins gravely. For God wisely orders and graciously wills that the generally more apt person should be elected, yet the elector often knowingly, and often through gross ignorance, is contrary to God. How then does he not blaspheme more than Petrus or Paulus? Indeed, one who exchanges spiritual power for temporal advantage sins more in effect than Symon Magus, and thus, acting contrary to the whole Trinity, treasonously denies the faith. Hence the decree of Hieronymus placed at Causa 8, questio 1, cap. Vos spernit, speaks thus: “He who despises you despises me.” From which it is manifest that one who, with the apostle’s law set aside, wishes to confer an ecclesiastical rank upon someone not on account of his merits but out of favor, appears to act against Christ — because what sort of presbyter should be appointed in the church, Christ has laid down through his apostle in what follows.

From this text it appears to me, first, that whether the pope or another appoints a bishop, and not according to the rule
