---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "49"
pdf_page: 91
sortable_pagination_id: 91
---

that the apostle gave to Timotheus, which I have expounded elsewhere, he sins more gravely against Christ. It appears to me secondly that whoever abandons the law and writings of the holy apostles and either practices or pursues novel traditions, despises the apostles and thus Christ, because he loves more the one whose knowledge he holds most dear as his own. And it appears to me thirdly that a prelate who does not live the apostolic life but rather the life of the world, despises the apostles and thus Christ, because he forecloses conduct contrary to them, which is a great contempt.

### But it is objected from the fact that, given this, all the laws of the church concerning elections would cease, all civil elections, and consequently all private religious orders and the customs of the schools — since these rest on nothing but duly conducted elections — and consequently also the twofold election at issue, namely adhesion to the per se good according to prohairesis \[deliberate rational choice\], an election that would have obtained in the state of innocence and will remain always in the fatherland, in the manner in which God, virtue, and grace are chosen by a person.

And according to this per se election, the law of scripture is of the greatest value; for in this election there is such certainty that it is impossible for the elector to fail in this matter. But the second election is with respect to the per accidens good of ministry and is twofold, namely provident and improvident; provident when a man looks to the means toward beatitude, with the intention by which \[that means\] would lead toward it, and elects according to God the part that seems probable to him. For in this way predestination is multiplied by election in many works through the spirit of God, as a ship on the sea moved by the wind. Hence in Romans 8 it is said: “For whosoever are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God” — that is, those who are led along the path to their beatitude. And in this, in many works, there must be so much counsel of the Holy Spirit that the saints sometimes fail, as is plain in the dissension between Paulus and Barnabas, Acts 15. Therefore it is necessary for us often to pray to God for right guidance in such matters,
