---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "51"
pdf_page: 93
sortable_pagination_id: 93
---

all inseparably smack of sin, since they make the law of God more difficult and impede the course of his word, as is plain in De Cessatione Legalium. And this is the reason why the law of God, set aside in favor of civil and philosophical law, ought to be learned by clerics. Nevertheless it is true that human laws can be of great profit insofar as they are implicitly contained in scripture, but there is danger in the elaboration and application of these.

### Secondly, the principal argument is made from the fact that

in every election it suffices that the person elected be capable of the office for which he is elected; but often many persons exist, one more capable and another less capable; therefore it is not always necessary to elect the most apt. Otherwise a man would sin continually in this, that he does not always do what is best for himself; and injustice would be done to a less capable elected person by setting him aside and choosing another less apt. And if Petrus is capable of such a benefice, then God makes him capable of it, and consequently he who disqualifies the one qualified by God acts in opposition to the divine will; for who is that elector who either accuses the one whom God approves or deselects the one whom God elects? Here it is said that a false assumption is made; indeed, often the person who is more capable for the office after greater maturity, for which he is now being elected, is presently unfit for the office as it now stands, and so it appears impossible for two persons to be simultaneously capable for the same incommunicable singular office at the same time. And the sense of the minor premise of the argument is plain: for it can happen that one person is for that time more capable and another is less capable — not that the latter will occupy that office now but afterward, as was the case with Petrus and Clemens. Hence, just as God can do nothing from indifference, so it is not possible for two persons to be equally capable at the same time for the same incommunicable office, because then God would be a respecter of persons and would without cause set one aside. And the inconsistency of the glossators of the decree is plain when they say that it suffices to elect a capable insider, but
