---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "52"
pdf_page: 94
sortable_pagination_id: 94
---

it is necessary that the one elected from outside be maximally capable. For whether insider or outsider, the most capable must be elected, because God makes that one most capable and makes no other capable at that time for that office; how great then would be the presumption, through favoritism toward a member of one’s own community, of electing a person for a period of time for which he is unfit! And if it is objected that on this view an election would be delayed to the destruction of the church, it is said that this is not so, but it is well concluded that deceitful human elections would be annulled, since no one would elect unless he had divine inspiration for this, being assured that God elects the same person and moves the elector to choose him. And if this were lacking, I would counsel that the elector refrain, occupying himself in what is certainly meritorious, setting aside the perilous ambiguous course; and if it be necessary for the governance of the church — as there are few or no dignities instituted by human agency — let them implore God for inspiration, or, being informed about several persons, let them cast lots concerning the person who is uncertain to them, as the apostles did. And it is plain that we sin continually, because for as long as we set aside what is more useful to us \[we are at fault\]. Therefore the blessed Johannes says that if we say we have no sins, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. \[1 John 1:8\] But grave is the fault taken on in blind elections beyond necessity. For no one ought to elect a less capable person for an office at a time for which he is less capable, because this would be to elect an unfit person. And it is plain that it is one thing for a man to do what is best for himself for the present moment and another to do what is best for himself absolutely. Nevertheless it must be conceded that the predestinate — as every man ought to be — continually works out his blessedness, and thus one who, for an ecclesiastical office, sets aside a less capable and presently unfit person, accomplishes for himself the good of proper discharge and the fulfillment of justice. Nor are there such degrees in choosing well and choosing better the numerically same \[candidate\] at the same moment; and it is plain that
