---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "54"
pdf_page: 95
sortable_pagination_id: 95
---

it accords in a given case with the divine will to judge a man unfit for an office for one period of time — for which God makes him fit for another — and so it is necessary to know logic in this matter. For one who is now unfit to occupy this office for the present is capable of occupying the same office at another time; therefore one must attend to both the time and the office as also paired above. There are therefore degrees in the election of a thing for the same moment according to degrees of charity, and not according to the number of persons eligible for that office at that time.

### Thirdly it is argued

Thirdly it is argued principally from the fact that, under the old law, God set Moses over the people in judgments hidden from the common folk, as is plain in Exodus \[18\]. But the same God has now under the new law such a vicar. But who would such a one be if not the pope? Here it is said that what is concluded is true, since Christ — whose head is God — is the pope and bishop for the whole Christian people; indeed Christ is prefigured by Moses, though Jesus is infinitely more excellent than him and present to his church until the day of judgment. Nothing \[further\] therefore \[is to be claimed\] for the Roman pontiff and vicar of Christ, unless perhaps by reason of greater merit he has from God a greater charism of spiritual providence for the church; and if he has this, let him humbly hold himself back from pomp, advancing in secret without the recompense of honor or temporal advantage. For the endowment or dignity given by Caesar does not make this, nor does a vicar \[of Christ make\] every layman his subject — indeed \[a vicar\] who dissolves such a portion or endowment thereby dissolves all endowment of the church. And beyond this it follows that by delaying in this matter he harms the holy church, because the spiritual minister would then be purer and the alms of the church would then be more abundant; but this judgment would be hard on those in authority.

### Furthermore, with respect to the faith of the law of Moses

Furthermore, with respect to the faith of the law of Moses: if the Roman pontiff wishes to be the vicar of Christ in the manner of Moses, let him see to it that he lives in conformity \[with that example\]. Of Moses, I say, it is read in Exodus \[18\]: “You consume yourself and this people who are with you with foolish labor, and this business is beyond your strength; the burden
