---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "56"
pdf_page: 98
sortable_pagination_id: 98
---

in servile tenure; therefore he ought not, on account of papal statutes, to be dispossessed of such liberty. And since the pope or his accomplice claims first fruits for himself, the layman ought to withhold his alms. I have elsewhere confirmed this at length; and no more fitting remedy presents itself, one which the secular arm is bound to execute against the simoniacal extortions of Antichrist. Hence the Polychronicon \[by Ranulf Higden of Chester\], Book VII, chapter 34, recounts of Gregory X that in the third year of his pontificate he held a council at Lyon in Gaul in which there were 600 bishops and 1000 prelates, and there he established that remarkable and previously unheard-of statute that all parish rectors should henceforth be priests. He also decreed that no one henceforth should be permitted to assign his tithes at his own pleasure as before, but must pay all tithes in every form to the mother church; he dissolved certain wandering orders and condemned the plurality of benefices. This act, I say, is recorded in the year of the Lord 1272. Just as, therefore, the ordinance of this pope is overturned in many matters, so it can be overturned in the distribution of tithes; and consequently it is not lawful for the pope to compel laymen generally to give him first fruits on a regular basis. For in that way so solemn an ordinance, by which tithes were to be given generally to the mother church, would be overturned; and correspondingly the pope could decree at his pleasure that laymen give him a tenth or whatever portion he wished of all their goods, and consequently strip all his subjects at will and destroy kingdoms. Nor will any reason be given why he can so thoroughly alienate alms from the ordering that Christ instituted, without being able by the same principle to do so to whatever extent he pleases; and thus the legal foundation by which we claim tithes is manifest. Furthermore, since the pope can commit simony, as the doctors unanimously affirm, it seems that by generally receiving the first fruits of a beneficed person whom he promotes, he becomes a simoniac, because he gives spiritual care in a disordered way for the sake of temporal advantage; and this is the definition of simony.
