---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "59"
pdf_page: 100
sortable_pagination_id: 100
---

as they blasphemously claim Christ and the apostles exemplified. Nothing, then, is more blasphemous than this fiction, as I have elsewhere set out at length. A sign of its falsity is that the pope claims first fruits from those whom he has recently promoted, but not from those promoted by the secular arm, nor from those promoted by other popes, nor from those promoted by the latter after they have once rendered what was simoniacally obtained; and yet in both cases there would be an equal license to withhold, but they fear for themselves on account of the receipt of simoniacal sacrilege and on account of the resistance of others. Hence it seems evident that those who through the acquisition of a benefice are simoniacal sacrilegists of this kind are also simoniacs by consent; for they supply money sacrilegiously extorted from them, and thus give to those \[popes\] a most shameful precedent in exchange for ecclesiastical dignity. For if all those promoted were to omit this, the simoniacal heresy stinking so greatly would be suspended among them. But this \[practice\] gradually grew strong, because at the helm of John XXII after Clement sat the cunning of the devil, as the Polychronicon recounts in Book VII, ch. 40. John XXII, it says, ‘sat after Clement for about nineteen years; he renewed the seventh book of the Decretals. And while he seemed at first to condemn the abusive receipt of gifts, he first condemned plurality of benefices, in such a way that once a rector had accepted a single benefice, the pope himself retained the fruits of the remaining vacant ones for a number of years. Furthermore he reserved to himself the first fruits of other benefices falling vacant through death or resignation, so that a rector once instituted would accept the assessment of his benefice and receive the remainder. From this affair immense treasures came into the papal treasury.’ And I believe this was not ill-practised by some pope. But in the same book, ch. 5 earlier, one reads how the holy \[King\] Louis burned —
