---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "61"
pdf_page: 102
sortable_pagination_id: 102
---

the rapacious reassignment of his benefice to another demonstrates that a mental condition was attached; and so the sin is multiplied by the gravity of the person, by the simulated justice, and by the blasphemous claim of the power granted to Peter’s vicar. Nor does it avail that the payment of the agreement follows afterwards. For Gesi, who was the preeminent simoniac in the Old Testament, made no express or tacit agreement with Naaman before God’s spiritual gift was given through Elizeus, as is clear from 2 Kgs. 5, but afterwards said: ‘My master hath spared Naaman this Syrian, in not receiving at his hands that which he brought: but, as the Lord liveth, I will run after him, and take somewhat of him.’ \[2 Kgs. 5:20\] Behold, the offering was the cause why Gesi had a simoniacal will. But the pope, before he confers a benefice, assesses what the promoted person will render \[in payment\] at least indistinctly and conditionally, if he holds \[the income\] from a single collation alone. Second, although Gesi joined a lie to his prior oath, he nevertheless asked under a certain modesty for as much as Naaman wished to give him by way of alms. ‘My master hath sent me to thee, saying: There are come to me now two young men from mount Ephraim, of the sons of the prophets; give them a talent of silver, and two changes of garments.’ And Naaman said: ‘Be pleased to take two talents. And he urged him.’ \[2 Kgs. 5:22–23\] But the pope, if any such there be, is said to add not merely simple falsehood to his oath to govern the church in conformity with the law of Christ, but blasphemy: \[he invokes\] the papacy and the excellence of his dignity of receiving temporalities in the name of the lineage of Christ and Peter — a claim in a form that Christ himself cannot uphold — and not as Gesi receiving more than he asked for under compulsion, but like a noonday demon he compels miserable promoted men to render against their will more than they would wish.
