---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "64"
pdf_page: 105
sortable_pagination_id: "0064"
---

decrees that it be done in this way. No mortal, therefore, ought to suppose that the ordinance or decree of so great a father is unlawful, but should accept it humbly and obediently as the Gospel; and so by the very fact that a decree proceeds from the pope, it becomes lawful through his dispensation, even if it would otherwise be simoniacal — for otherwise the pope could not dispense with a simoniac.

Here it is said that all who blaspheme in support of this opinion exalt Antichrist above all that is called God, because they imply that the pope is impeccable, and beyond that capable of doing what Christ neither ought to do nor, whether according to his divinity or his humanity, is able to do. Therefore, since the pope is supremely capable of sin, the same reasoning would amount to forbidding a man from discussing his \[the pope’s\] power, or from judging whatever he has done as unjust, and would amount to acknowledging oneself a disciple of Antichrist and wishing one’s school to defend itself against Christ. And therefore I say with the blessed Evangelist that many Antichrists have arisen \[cf. 1 John 2:18\], because all who by deed or favor take the side of the said opinion are Antichrists. Nor should we fear to correct the pope when he so offends to the peril of the church, since it was on this account that Christ called Petrus Satan, Matt. 16 \[Matt. 16:23\], lest even his slight fault should pass unpunished by his brothers; and on this account Paulus resisted Petrus to his face because he was blameworthy, Gal. 2 \[Gal. 2:11\]. Both of these were written undoubtedly for our instruction. And on this account emperors and many individual parties according to their laws not only resisted but also deposed many popes, because otherwise one would have to despair of a sinning pope and hate the church that he seduces. Hence we are more hostile to none \[among\] popes and bishops than those household members who cease to correct them and do not cease to anoint their state and life with the blasphemous oil of flattery. For not thus did the blessed Bernardus act toward Pope Eugenius \[III\], whom he nevertheless
