---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "65"
pdf_page: 107
sortable_pagination_id: 107
---

as its leader, ought to attend diligently to his life if he has fulfilled it in an excellent manner; but if he departs from this, one must, setting the pope aside, follow Christ according to the law of faith. For just as dancers watch the feet of the piper so as to move themselves in conformity with him, so the Christian host must attend to the inclinations of its leader, and in proportion as it follows Christ the first piper, follow him; and if \[the pope\] departs from this, with that man set aside one must follow Christ. And hence Christ ordains that his law moving the affections ought to be known by all Christians, and promises to be readily present wherever two or three are gathered in his name \[Matt. 18:20\]. Hence it is a blasphemy — the second fiction — to say that the law of Christ must cease on account of the change of times, and that one must live according to another law which the pope ordains. Although the clergy may say this unanimously both in word and deed, yet nothing more blasphemously dissipates the law of Christ or prepares the way for Antichrist, because it unmistakably indicates that the priesthood of Christ has been transferred to Antichrist — for otherwise there would be no such transfer of his eternal law — and thus above the old law and the new there would come a third law of prophecy which the Jews await, making a monster in the church above both body and soul. Therefore all Christians, and especially secular lords instructed by a priest in the law of God, must resist these errors. For just as the intellect of the church has been deceived in the matter of the Eucharist in speculative things, so its affection by the same sect has been deceived in practical things. But let us beseech the Lord to help us; and it is clear that what is often falsely assumed — that the pope has decreed and licensed it to be done so — has no standing. For it is not lawful for him to decree anything except what is contained explicitly or implicitly in Scripture; and why would he decree it as a burden on the church, since God has given a complete form according to which, setting aside all else, he willed the faithful to execute his law? Woe, therefore, to those who tear apart this ordinance and obstruct the course and order of the word of God! For just as a dead man is not a man, so a fictitious license not authorized by the law of Christ
