---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "66"
pdf_page: 108
sortable_pagination_id: 108
---

is not a license but the unlawful presumption of Antichrist. For otherwise nothing that the pope approves would be a disordered act of will, and consequently neither the pope nor anyone treating with him or his associates would commit simony — which would be the noonday blindness of an unbeliever. It is therefore necessary, in order to judge whether something is ordered or disordered, to consider the law of God, in which every act of God’s will and every divine ordinance is contained; for nothing is lawful except insofar as it has been conformed to the ordinance and will of God. But alas! Antichrist too greatly obscures this Scripture and therewith the will of God; and so it is inevitable that the will of God remains unknown while the will of Antichrist is openly carried out. Supposing therefore that a deed or decree of the pope is unlawful, every Christian ought more carefully to presuppose that it is of this kind, lest in following it he fall into a pit, and many Christian souls be deceived by the devil’s ready snare. The proof is as follows: the pope ought to presuppose that any such deed or decree of his is evil and unlawful; all his flock ought to follow him in all lawful things; therefore all his flock ought to presuppose that such a deed is unlawful. The major premise is plain — and also the fact that the pope ought to be contrite concerning any such deed and acknowledge it as one to be recalled and satisfaction to be made to God and the church; which he would not do unless he had presupposed his deed to have been unlawful. Hence since he is very greatly capable of sin, more patient satisfaction is required of him, lest through the remainder he seduce the Lord’s flock. Let him therefore call to mind the life of Petrus and of blessed Elizeus with their decrees, and let him not simoniacally accumulate money for himself on account of the world. For Gesi, drawn to a life of private ownership — loving himself in a disordered fashion and detesting the poor and common life of Elizeus his master — accepted two talents from Naaman, and pretending as if he had done nothing wrong, procured for himself vineyards and oliveyards; but he heard the harsh but most just divine sentence, as is plain in 4 Kgs. 5 \[4 Kgs. 5:26–27\].
