---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "67"
pdf_page: 109
sortable_pagination_id: 109
---

as is recited above. Symon also, because he wished to purchase from Petrus the gift of the Holy Spirit for money, heard from Petrus, as is said in Acts 8 \[Acts 8:20\], the decree of that same Spirit: ‘Thy money perish with thee’; and although Symon purposed to be rich and renowned before the world, yet the sentence of Petrus was fulfilled concerning him. Nor is it right to disbelieve that, just as this sentence was most just, so it is inevitably to be visited upon every Roman pontiff who is in this manner simoniacal. That it is not so perceived at the present time in a sensible sign for the instruction of the church, although the sin is in every way more grave, is a most dire portent — for it is a clear sign that the pope who is foreknown as reprobate is thus finally hardened, and so, like a wild boar of the devil to be slaughtered, permitted as one despairing and capable of nothing else, is allowed to wallow freely in filth to his own heavier damnation. Nor is the people to be instructed by God’s vengeance upon him as was the case in the primitive church under God’s guidance; but just as he sins in the signs — that is, in the sacraments which he celebrates faithlessly — so let him be punished in the sin of those very signs by which he would be recalled to the knowledge of true life. Faith teaches, I say, that God is the same as of old: no respecter of persons, but always punishing a man generally according as he has sinned. Faith teaches again that whether pope or any other bishop who traffics as much or more in spiritual things, who inclines toward the world as much or more than Symon or Gesi, abandoning the law of God and repentance, will be more gravely punished. For the satisfaction of such a perverse man it seems to me that he who confesses the sin publicly must publicly retract the error for the instruction of the church, just as the lesser sins of Symon and Gesi are recorded in the Scripture of faith. O how glorious an example for the church it would be if our Urbanus VI were to renounce all worldly riches as Petrus did, so that in Urbanus I and Urbanus VI the circle were completed whereby the clergy, having abandoned the religion of Christ, has wandered into secular affairs. Nor is there any doubt that the blind
