---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "68"
pdf_page: 110
sortable_pagination_id: 110
---

torpor of the secular lords is the cause why so glorious a fruit and reformation of the church is delayed; for the powerful Antichrist with his accomplices causes his members, by the permission of God, to wallow yet further in filth.

Furthermore, every faithful person should abhor the heresies which are today publicly defended by the disciples of Antichrist — as, for instance, what is publicly said to have been condemned by Gregorius XI as heretical: namely, that it is not the case that by the mere fact that the pope pretends in any manner to loose or bind, he thereby in fact looses or binds. And undoubtedly, whoever could make that opinion \[i.e., that of automatic papal binding and loosing\] catholic would be exalted above all that is called God \[2 Thess. 2:4\], and would consequently be an omnipotent Antichrist. Those bishops, therefore, who procured this condemnation and still defend it tacitly or expressly are undoubtedly procurers or members of that accursed man. It is accordingly denied, as supremely heretical, that by the mere fact that a mandate proceeds from the pope it is therefore lawful and to be executed, and that what was previously unlawful may be dispensed with contrary to it. For just as Petrus could not dispense with even a slight venial sin — for which Paulus resisted him to his face, that it might not be treated as no sin at all or as lawful — so no subsequent pope can subvert the law of God concerning simony, nor can he dispense with anyone in however slight a sin, except insofar as God first dispenses and he himself faithfully promulgates \[it\] in conformity with the divine will. So many blasphemies, therefore, have been sown concerning the power of the pope that both the faithful and the unfaithful would resist them; yet our bishops and doctors dare not speak against them in the cause of Christ, but like dumb dogs unable to bark, they pusillanimously consent by their silence \[cf. Isa. 56:10\]. And this is the reason why too great a part of the so-called church is infected. For when the root is infected with simoniacal wickedness, the poison must needs spread through the whole trunk, since whatever so great a heretic has done is heretical before God and accursed by the whole Church Triumphant. Therefore, as I said at the end of my treatise *De Veritate Sacre Scripture*, the remedy is
