---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "7"
pdf_page: 48
sortable_pagination_id: 48
---

— because he himself, together with his cardinals, often becomes a simoniac and is to be deposed by the secular arm by virtue of the authority of the first pope. Therefore it has come to pass that the deception of Antichrist seduces the princes of the world and closes the spider’s web around their hands, lest through lack of their support and of mother Church they \[the princes\] rush headlong into hell. The remainder of the conclusion is evident upon noting all those who obtain benefices from the pope through illicit means; upon noting also all bishops or clerics who through the ministry, request, or letters of secular lords have been unworthily promoted to ecclesiastical benefices; and upon noting thirdly all ministers of prelates, their kinsmen, or those in any way confederate with them, who have been promoted either by the prelates themselves or through their illicit mediation. And you will find few or no prelates and parish priests who are not heretics. And yet these men, after the manner of thieves, after the manner of priests who impute blasphemy against Christ, and generally after the manner of the members of Antichrist, they very swiftly assail the faithful on the charge of heretical wickedness — and, having set aside the law of Christ, they appoint for themselves a single covetous captain, in whose judgment they falsely pretend all things hang that are to be believed in that matter. And he is commonly ignorant and greedy, condemned together with the heretics of his school — and yet, having abandoned Christ and his laws, they rely on his judgment and his laws. Beyond these heretics there are two other kinds of heretics who are damnably to be blamed: namely, those living without property, such as the friars, and the secular lords. The former, in their preachings, in private exhortations, in counsels and confessions on this matter, cast darkness over it, whereas these watchmen ought to know and urgently insist upon the opposite — otherwise, through most grievous complicity, they are to be charged with treacherous betrayal. The last kind are the secular lords, as it were heresiarchs, who not only remain silent about their own goods in violation of their oath made to the Church and of the office appointed to them by God, but actually make simoniacs, foster them, and defend them; and many such have been informed about this matter and are not excused by the fact that they cannot avoid this error. But just as our silence does not excuse us from the duty of telling these things to them, so their ignorance does not excuse them — unless they correct themselves, they are damned.
