---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "71"
pdf_page: 113
sortable_pagination_id: 113
---

the priests of Christ will rejoice in this — that they have been deemed worthy to suffer reproach for the name of Jesus Christ their Lord? They themselves eat spiritually, digest, and beget strong nations in the Lord, and the apostles of Christ take pride in the glory of those they have converted, because in this they surpass the people who shall be judged, whom they themselves shall surpass as judges at the last — especially if they glory in tribulations for Christ’s sake, persevering to the end in their holy purpose.

And hence Hieronymus says in his Letter 81 to Eustochium, daughter of the holy Paula: “Learn,” he says, “in this matter a holy pride.” From these things it is clear, as I have often said, that there is no excuse in the claim that something can be done rightly, and therefore that no sin is committed in doing it. One must attend, I say, to the manner which the saints, drawing from the faith of Scripture, determine that such a thing ought to be done.

It may therefore happen that a bishop is simoniacal in the course of his life in three ways. First, if after a simoniacal entry he neglects the episcopal office prescribed for all bishops in \[the Epistles to\] Timotheus, as is shown elsewhere. And this is a far graver simony than that committed in the entry itself, because the earnest-money of simony previously given is made heavier when in practice the Church is defiled by the leprosy contracted from such a bishop; indeed, if the bishop has been contrite for a time concerning his simoniacal entry, but afterwards neglects the episcopal office in a disorderly fashion, the prior simony — the same in subject though not in time — revives; for it \[the neglect\] is the end and purpose of the malice of the prior simony. And this is clear from the definition of simony. For every such person has a disordered will to exchange a spiritual office for temporal reward; since the new episcopal act continuously succeeds, it is evident that one who disorderedly exchanges the spiritual office for pleasure or some other temporal cause is continuously simoniacal. And this sense seems \[to be that\] of the Decree, causa 1, quaestio 3, chapter *Non solum* \[*Not only*\], where it is said that not only those who are commonly called simoniacs, but also those who exercise the grace of God, or a rank, or a spiritual grace in
