---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "84"
pdf_page: 126
sortable_pagination_id: 126
---

### CHAPTER VII.

It remains further to consider how the propertied religious orders are defiled by simoniacal heresy. They are defiled by the leprosy of simony at entry, in their progress, and commonly at departure. At entry, both the one who receives and the one received \[are guilty\]. The one who receives is guilty when, having the power of adoption, he appoints a less suitable person ahead of one who is more religious, on account of bloodline, wealth, or some such temporal advantage; for they sell the religion, the order, and the status of their order — which is a highly spiritual thing — and do so inordinately for temporal gain, and therefore by the definition \[of simony\] are simoniacs in this respect. For through such a corrupt election they could overthrow a holy order. The same judgment applies to the receiving of a price by agreement or custom for a spoon, a cup, or similar ornament. Hence in Causa I, quaestio 2, cap. *Nullus*, Urbanus II commands “that no abbot presume to exact or receive a price from those who come for religious conversion by any such agreed condition. Following the ancient rule, I decree that no one is ever to receive anything whatsoever for ordinations.” This is plain from reason and from many laws. From this it seems that the commutation of corrodies is illicit, because simoniacal: for the right to feed on the goods of the poor is exchanged inordinately and for a temporal price, and consequently something spiritual is inordinately and quite literally bought for a temporal price. The inordinateness is evident from the fact that one who buys a corrody despairs of God’s providence for himself regarding life’s necessities, contrary to the Gospel of Matt. 6. Secondly, it gives occasion for idleness and the subversion of religious life, contrary to the law of Bede in his letter
