---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "86"
pdf_page: 127
sortable_pagination_id: 127
---

to the Bishop of York. And thirdly, it betrays founders and the poor. Founders, because where religious men ordained that the poor should live on their alms, the wealthy of the world consume those alms voluptuously and irreligiously and sacrilegiously; and there is no doubt that the diversion of such goods defrauds the poor to that extent. As regards the sellers, it is plain that the transaction proceeds from a fictitious idolatry by which they greedily covet money; for by the same logic they could multiply secular persons in their monasteries until all the revenues of the house scarcely or insufficiently provided for them, and thus would destroy the whole religious house — which in many places in England has in fact occurred; nor can it be avoided that, as regards the prayers for founders according to the form of the donation and obligation, these are diminished to that same extent. Nor will any reason be given why by the same logic it would not be permissible to traffic by payment with a prelate, bishop, or abbot — and by the same logic with a wife in the new marketplace — which is contrary to the law of the humble pope Bonifacius, quaestio 2, cap. *Quam pio*, where he addresses those wishing to traffic with their abbacy for a price, which is not lawful. “We have never read,” he says, “that the Lord’s disciples or those converted through their ministry ever induced anyone to the worship of God by the intervention of any gift, unless perhaps someone contributed in common from the food of the poor — from which victuals were denied to no one of whatever profession they were.” And from that most holy law it is plain, first, how, from the absence of scriptural testimony — which contains all truth insofar as it is knowable — he denies that such commerce of goods is to be practiced among religious. Would that this principle were held in honor today! For then there would be excluded not only the sale of corrodies but the simoniacal induction of religious persons. It is plain, second, that in the primitive Church all temporal goods were held in common for any religious person in need, as was the case in the greatest act of religious life given to the apostles by the Holy Spirit, Acts 4: “They had,” he says, “all things in common.”
