---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "89"
pdf_page: 131
sortable_pagination_id: 131
---

The leprosy of simoniacal heresy in these \[orders\] is plain. First, from the fact that they exchange and sell the state of perfection of a life without property for a modest temporal gain; but this is expressly the leprosy of simony — therefore in the fact that they permanently appropriate to themselves churches or any other temporal thing, they fall into the heresy described above. And this is the reason why the apostles and other men without property refused to abandon the sweetness of the original \[way\]. Secondly, the same point is evident from the threefold form of lying representation: they pretend to the pope and other intermediary persons such poverty that with their prior possessions they are insufficient to live or to bear the burden of the church. But this is a second lie: for if the number of persons were calculated and the revenues distributed in equal portions, each of them would have sufficient to spend a thousand marks, and Christ and the apostles and the fathers of their order in early times lived on far less. The second \[representation\] is that from this appropriation the Church would not be harmed but built up, because otherwise neither pope nor angel in heaven could establish such an appropriation, as is plain from Rom. 8 and 15. But the whole world, the pope, and simple folk know it to be a lie. Thirdly, they promise, as they must, that they will defend the right and status of the Church, not worsening but improving our mother the Church, since otherwise the contrary would be permitted — so that the first representation for appropriation is the poverty of a beggar, the second representation is their preeminence in need above all others in necessity, for if it were more useful to the Church for another party to have it, the one appropriating would sin more gravely by withholding or omitting so great a benefit to our mother the Church. And the third representation is a constant perseverance in improving our mother the Church. It is evident, indeed, that neither pope nor angel from heaven may lawfully appropriate a church if any one of these three \[claims\] is falsified; but any appropriation founded on this lying tripod must be destroyed under the law of God as a nest of sacrilegious simony. Thirdly, the simoniacal appropriation is principally convicted
