---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "91"
pdf_page: 133
sortable_pagination_id: 133
---

the wickedness of a single troublemaker for all the goods of the world — still less \[is this permissible for\] those instructed by the Lord who, when they ought to be resisting the pope, concur in appropriating such churches; and from the folly of those who labor for such appropriations to be made to them, the corruption of appropriation is plain.

But it is objected regarding Scarioth, whom Christ elected \[knowing him\] as a given evil — therefore we, who ought regularly to follow the example of Christ’s deeds in our own work, must in certain cases choose evil, especially when with simple and pious intent we know no other means; for timidity, it is said, would impede the great good arising from such provision. This blasphemous argument blinds many; for Christ, being omniscient, elected Scarioth so that he might be a portent of the grave depravity to come in the Church, so that knowledge of all his malice might profit the Church — not that he \[Christ\] might sin, as is plain at length elsewhere. But it is altogether alien to one who is barely a member of the Church, not its head, on that account to surpass Christ — who does not ordain ignorantly — in setting up a perpetual Judas over the people. Let us therefore recall, I say, that word of Christ in Matt. 16, said to Petrus: “Get thee behind me, Satan” — for I would not thus precede Christ in the manner of Antichrist, who exalts himself above all that is called God. Let us therefore attend to those things which Christ did as the omniscient head of the universal Church, and let us not strive to surpass him or to make ourselves equal to him in these matters, unless we should first be wiser than he. Therefore let us follow him in these things, doing proportionately and wisely what savors of good morals, not foolishly choosing or authorizing the evil of sin, or even a lesser evil, even if great good may by divine grace come from it — in accordance with the lying argument denounced by the apostle in Rom. 3. And thus from the folly of those who appoint \[unworthy persons\] or appro\[-priate\]
