---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "93"
pdf_page: 134
sortable_pagination_id: "0093"
---

those who thus appropriate churches, and from the folly of those who labor for such appropriations to be made to them, the corruption of appropriation is evident.

But creeping upon this with greater persistence and more serious malice is the evil arising from simoniacal pensions introduced both in appropriated and in non-appropriated churches. For in consideration of the grace of appropriation, a bishop or chapter or both receive an annual pension — this without doubt simoniacally, since it is \[given\] for the spiritual benefit of the church, as they claim — and this simony is the more grave the more it is prolonged in many persons and in high-ranking ones. But in non-appropriated churches, perpetual simoniacal pensions have been introduced in the following manner. First, I say, the people who ought to be ministered to elected for themselves, under the law of God, one bishop or prelate; and in this way were elected holy bishops whose feasts the Church solemnizes, as is plain in their legends. Secondly, secular lords, because it seemed to them to savor of excellence, elected entirely on their own as sole patrons; they, however, were guided by conscience. Thirdly, they gave patronages to religious convents, because it seemed probable to them that they would thereby be relieved of the burden, would avoid danger, and that the religious themselves would more prudently confer dignities upon the worthier. And on this \[third\] development Antichrist founded perpetual simony in pensions: for those \[religious\] according to the law of Lucifer gave them \[benefices\] to the idle, for whom the secular powers interceded according to the law of the flesh; they gave them to kinsmen, though ignorant of the art of spiritual governance; and according to the law of the world they gave them to servants and to those however incapable who were willing to offer more. And from these sources, but especially from the intermediary \[persons\], all pensions crept into the abbacies — some on account of gratitude for kinship, some on account of the pretended poverty or sanctity of the house, and some on account of a returned recompense for a benefit received. In such cases indeed a pension
