---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "95"
pdf_page: 137
sortable_pagination_id: 137
---

part of the year, while it profits the Church, stand in the schools, and have with them junior clergy according to the grades of revenues; from these and from others attached by their parents, the community of theological study in the universities may be maintained. And let the colleges forfeit before king and realm the right of patronage of this kind when they are convicted of electing the less capable. Such colleges, I say, would bear fruit in their studies, whereas our colleges to no purpose impoverish the realm and toil in envy.

As regards the expenditures and secular litigation over the goods of convents, it is plain that they are full of simoniacal wickedness. For according to the evangelical law of Pope Gregory cited above, C. 16 q. 7 cap. *Pervenit*, bishops who consume the goods of the poor on a lavish household, on soldiers and kinsmen, are numbered among the greatest heretics, who are simoniacs. But this law binds abbots, priors, and other presiding religious more strongly; therefore they, acting thus, belong to the class of the greatest heretics, who are simoniacs. The minor premise of the argument is evident from the fact that the said religious are by their vow more separated from the world, and by their religion and its signs more committed to professing evangelical poverty than secular bishops — therefore by acting against the aforesaid evangelical law they sin more gravely, and consequently by reason of a greater infection of simony they are deeper heretics. For those who so openly dissolve the pact of religion which they pledged to God are faithless to their patron and to holy Church. The major premise of the argument is attested by those experienced in observing the life of the Church, who see that at their dinners, as regards the table of attendants, the dinner arrangements, and their vessels, they surpass counts; as regards their equipage at the general assemblies of the realms they surpass princes; and as regards external expenses it is said that the goods of the poor are consumed in pensions and entertainments of men of human and duplicitous law, in malefactions
