---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "97"
pdf_page: 139
sortable_pagination_id: 139
---

for the sake of the command of the Lord or the salvation of the whole world; therefore much less \[would one do so\] for the sake of continuing an unjust possession and accumulating a perverse irregularity. For God taught, in particular, by giving light, rains, and other celestial influences — as is plain from the decree of the holy Evangelist placed in the law of nature, manifest to all — that men should spend their goods broadly in common and not in disordered heaps. One can then see more clearly than light how gladly they would tolerate the perpetual dissolution of their house and all their revenues and appropriations and churches, rather than thus distribute heretically the goods of God. For the consequence that would follow would be nothing other than that the religious and their temporal possessions would be scattered as they once were in the world, and consequently they would build the Church in a more heavenly manner than they now corrupt it.

But let us grant the tyrants that injury! Let us recall, I say, how that office concerning temporal matters ought more properly to belong to secular \[men\], and how we have withdrawn that office from them and moreover how we foster them in their tyranny; and then we should grieve over our apostasy, which causes those crimes in them.

For since according to the philosophers nothing violent is eternal, and according to scripture the whole world will fight on God’s behalf \[cf. Wisd. 5:20–23\], for the completion of justice it is necessary that the instruments of God, whether well or ill, restore the Church to the state which he himself instituted, nor can excommunications or human laws frustrate the divine purpose therein. Therefore, as I have often said, this distemper of the clergy is the cause of wars in the world and of all the irreligion of the Church. If anyone is able to live the monastic life religiously, let us flee to desert places, as the earlier holy fathers did, and there weep over our sins and those of the people; but let us not remain in the cities supplanting secularity and heretically \[driving\] laypeople from their rightful inheritance \[*nostragio*\] and infecting them with heretical leprosy — for as is certain we entangle ourselves in inconveniences
