---
reading: wycliffe-simony
page: "99"
pdf_page: 140
sortable_pagination_id: "0099"
---

insolubly upon ourselves. For the condition of sin is invincible, and the stratagem of the devil’s sophist inescapable: he leads all his servants to the most shameful end of refutation. For whether they will or not, they will concede in the day of judgment that truth which they now deny. The obstinacy of those in religious life, therefore, whereby they laboriously and at great cost defend their heresy even to the point of death, is to be most greatly feared.

### CHAPTER VIII.

From these things, the diligent watchman can perceive how thickly and variously the leprosy of simoniacal heresy is sown throughout the Church Militant, and in what manner that Church can provide a remedy against the said heresy. The simoniacal leprosy is described from the foregoing, to which I judge it should be added that everyone who consents to simoniacal heresy is to be reckoned a simoniac. For a man consents in six modes, and in composite modes resulting from these same six, as I have expounded at length elsewhere from the judgments of the saints and of the laws of the Church; these are contained in the following verses:

Consentit operans, defendens, consilium dans
Ac auctorisans, non iuvans nec reprehendens. \[He consents who acts, who defends, who gives counsel, who authorizes, who does not assist, and who does not reprove.\]

Now the one who cooperates with a simoniac, whether as an intermediary or by engaging in commerce, is a simoniac by consent; as is also the one who defends simony in a scholastic or contentious manner; as is, thirdly, the one who counsels another toward simoniacal wickedness; and fourthly, the powerful man who authorizes persons as his own, or their actions which he ought to recognize as simoniacal. For just as every believer capable of reason ought to know mortal sins so as to avoid them, so every person capable of reason, and especially a secular lord, ought to know simony; yet the worshippers of accidents conceal from the people the quiddity of the Eucharist just as they conceal the grounds and species of simony. In the fifth and sixth modes, simony is committed when a man who has been given by God both the opportunity and the knowledge falls silent and does not reprove those who are thus vicious. And in this case are the greater part of the friars, or all of them, and the contemplatives of whatever status,
