---
reading: cudworth-galatians-6-6
page: 480
pdf_page: 502
sortable_pagination_id: 502
---

the very stones of the ruined abbeys and other religious houses shall rise up in judgment against us: for those places could maintain thirty or forty idle bellies who did nothing but nurse men in superstitious idolatry, whereas now the same places will not competently maintain one or two to instruct people in the way to eternal life. And no wonder — for we take from the Church as fast as they gave to it. In old time men were wont to say, *What shall we give the man of God?* (1 Sam. 9), but now with the sacrilegious church-robbers they say, *Come and let us take the house of God in possession* (Ps. 83:12). The Jews were exceedingly forward and liberal in their contribution to the Tabernacle: some brought gold, others silver, silk, precious stones; the meaner sort brought rams’ skins, goats’ hair, and the like — so much more than enough was offered by them that Moses was compelled to cause a proclamation to be made, restraining the people from offering (Exod. 36:5–6). Their example in being so forward to contribute to the material temple shall condemn our backwardness in contributing so little to the ministers, who are the living temples of God, and to the ministry, which stands in the place of the altar. For by how much God has diminished the cost of the altar and the charges of the ceremonial worship under the Old Testament, by so much more does he require the ministry to be maintained and spiritual worship to be furthered under the New.

Lastly, if those who do not put their helping hand to upholding the ministry are to be condemned, what condemnation, I ask, then belongs to sacrilegious persons who rob the Church of her revenues and devour holy things?
