---
reading: humbert-3-books
page: 117
pdf_page: 131
sortable_pagination_id: 131
---

prayer or to seek healing; and those who have gone there, if they are faithful, having been made incommunicable, are to be reduced to penance for some time. But those who do penance and confess their error ought to be received back.

### Likewise from the same council, Chapter X.

Those who belong to the church should by no means allow their own children to be joined in marriage to heretics. In agreement with this chapter, the Council of Carthage decreed that the children of clergy should not be joined in matrimony to pagans, heretics, or schismatics, and that bishops or any clergy should not bestow anything upon those who are not Catholic Christians through donations of their own property, even if they are

### Likewise from the Council of Laodicea, Chapter XL.

relatives.

It is not fitting to share meals indiscriminately with all heretics, nor to give sons or daughters in marriage to them; rather one may receive \[children in marriage from them\], provided they profess that they will become Catholic Christians.

### Likewise from the same council, Chapter XLII.

It is not fitting to receive the eulogies \[blessed bread\] of heretics, since these are rather curses than blessings.

### Likewise from the same council, Chapter XLVI.

It is not fitting to pray with heretics or schismatics.

### Likewise from the same council, Chapter XLVII.

It is not fitting to accept festal gifts sent by Jews or heretics.

### From the canons of the apostles on the same subject.

A bishop, priest, or deacon who has prayed with heretics is to be deprived of communion only. But if he has encouraged them to act or pray as clerics, let him be condemned.

### From the same source, from the decrees of Pope Fabian.

All who do not teach correct doctrine or do not hold correct faith cannot rightly be accusers of any right believer, because they are marked with infamy and severed from the bosom of Mother Church by the apostolic sword until their correct conversion and return. Hence, decreeing with apostolic authority together with all the children of this same apostolic and universal church, we sanction that all who are suspect in the Catholic faith shall not be received as accusers of right believers, because all who are suspect are always to be removed and not received. The accusation of those who are suspect in the right faith is therefore rightly rejected, and no credence whatsoever is to be given to them.

### Likewise from the decrees of the blessed Pope and Martyr Dionysius.

The crimes which you say are being laid against bishops by others — do not allow them to be brought in any way except by those who are pressing the charges, provided, however, that these themselves appear worthy and blameless and have shown by their public conduct that they are entirely free of suspicion and enmity and lead an irreproachable faith and way of life. For no credence can be given to a person who has confessed \[a crime\] against himself in a matter concerning
