---
reading: humbert-3-books
page: 172
pdf_page: 186
sortable_pagination_id: 186
---

and deny them to the people of God unless they buy them back at a price? But woe to the wretched \[people\] which is afflicted in this way by a twofold loss, for it both loses its outward goods through this trafficking and does not receive its inward goods — nay, it incurs damnation, by which it is rejected from the body of Christ like corrupted bread and devoured by heretics and, once ingested by them, is so consumed that it has its being only with that companion of theirs who is not \[i.e., the devil\]: whom, as he goes about roaring like a lion and seeking whom he may devour, when fools in their folly try to flee, they encounter a bear — that is, clever heresy, which presents a certain semblance of humanity, as though of reason — and so that beast tears apart the innermost liver of such men, that is their right intention, in a bestial manner, and secretly consigns them to be devoured by the lion they had vainly thought to have escaped. Hence, since of such devourers it is added: “Because they have not called upon God,” we must ask whom they do invoke, since they sometimes have lengthy prayers and are heard and seen by men to invoke God. But from this difficult question the blessed Jerome, concise as usual, relieves us, in his commentary on Zechariah where he expounds the following words: “And it shall come to pass in that day, says the Lord of hosts, I will cut off the names of the idols from the land, and they shall be remembered no more, and I will remove the prophets and the spirit of uncleanness from the land.” As idols are made by the hand of an artisan, so the perverse doctrine of heretics, whatever it may simulate, turns it into an idol and causes antichrist to be worshipped in place of Christ. And if they sometimes curse the devil in words, they most certainly curse themselves, as is confirmed by the saying of the wise man: “When the wicked man curses the devil, he curses his own soul.” That all this is so, no one would gainsay except a manifest heretic. Let those, therefore, who have been appointed and substituted by robbers to bless and pray in any manner whatsoever, even gratis, now weigh what they have acquired from such fellowship — of which they have become participants and to which they have freely subscribed, since they not only believed that fellowship’s actions to be valid but even proclaimed them. Assuredly they are murderers, as are those to whom they have consented. For they kill the inner man in themselves and in others in such a way that their outer man lives in vain, soon to have eternal punishment. For wherever the soul at length perishes, the body too will follow after.

## CHAPTER XXVII.

### The sentence of Saint Augustine, by which all heretics are convicted of denying that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh.

But lest anyone accuse us of composing a novel reproach against heretics from our own person rather than from the divine pages — not thinking them to be altogether without faith or to deny the Lord God — let him attend to the venerable and Catholic doctor Augustine thundering these words in his commentary on the epistle of the blessed apostle John: “All heretics, all schismatics, have gone out from us” — that is, they go out from the Church — “but they would not have gone out if they had been of us before they went out.” And a little later: “Assuredly, all who go out from the Church and are cut off from the unity of the Church are antichrists: no one doubts it. For he himself designated this when he said, ‘They went out from us, but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, they would certainly have remained with us.’ Whoever therefore does not remain with us, but goes out from us, it is manifest that they are antichrists. And how would they be proved antichrists? By lying. And who is the liar, except one who denies that Jesus is not Christ? Let us interrogate heretics: Where do you find the heretic? He is the one who denies that Jesus is not Christ. Let your charity see this great mystery. Attend to what the Lord God has inspired, and to what I wish to convey to you. Behold, they have gone out from us and become Donatists. Let us ask them whether Jesus Christ is \[the Christ\]; at once they confess that Jesus Christ is. If therefore one is antichrist who denies that Jesus is Christ, neither can we call them antichrists nor they us, for both we confess and they confess. If therefore neither they call us antichrists nor we call them,
