---
reading: humbert-3-books
page: 174
pdf_page: 188
sortable_pagination_id: 188
---

living, yet agree with him in their christian believing. But the \[simoniacs\] are antichrists in both respects, because they are contrary to him both in their perverse belief and in their wicked conduct — which, even if it appears good, is nothing but sin, because it is without faith. To distinguish us from their evasions, we are marked with this token of our emperor: “Freely you have received, freely give.”

## Chapter XXVIII.

### From the same author as above: that heretics do not have the Holy Spirit, even though they possess the visible sacraments.

But let us attend to some further words of the same doctor: “Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits, whether they are of God.” And who is it that tests the spirits? He has set us a difficult task, my brothers; it is good for us that he himself should say the means by which we discern. He is about to tell us — do not be afraid; but first see, attend. See now how what the vain heretics slander us about is being expressed. Attend, see what he says: “Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits, whether they are of God; for many false prophets have gone out into this world.” Already there are all heretics and all schismatics. How then shall I test the spirit? It follows: “By this the Spirit of God is known. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God, and every spirit that does not confess Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is not of God, and this is the antichrist, of whom you have heard that he is coming, and is now already in the world.” Therefore the spirit that is among heretics is of God, because they confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh? Now from this they perhaps raise themselves up against us and say: You do not have the Spirit of God, but we also confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh. For he denied the Spirit of God to those who do not confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh. Ask the Arians: do they confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh? Ask the Macedonians: do they confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh? Ask the Cataphrygians \[Montanists\]: do they confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh? Ask the Novatians: do they confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh? Do all these heresies therefore have the Spirit of God? Are they therefore not false
