---
reading: humbert-3-books
page: 96
pdf_page: 110
sortable_pagination_id: 110
---

as foremost. For when Humbert was residing at Trani in 1053, the letter that Archbishop Leo of Ohrid had addressed to John, bishop of Trani, in disparagement of the Latins was handed to Humbert, who translated it into Latin and presented it to the pope. For this reason Leo IX dispatched Humbert, Peter archbishop of Amalfi, and Frederick the chancellor to Constantinople. The legates set out for Constantinople through Monte Cassino in January 1054 and reached that city on the 24th of June. Upon arriving, Humbert published a response against Patriarch Michael Cerularius composed by himself in the form of a dialogue, although Pope Leo himself had also written a pamphlet to refute the errors of the Greeks. It is well known that this legation came to an unhappy end: so far were the legates, of whom Humbert was chief, from reconciling the Greek and Latin churches and obtaining the emperor Constantine’s help against the Normans that on the 16th of July they excommunicated the patriarch and his followers, to whose side the emperor himself nonetheless subsequently passed. Under Victor II, who succeeded Leo IX, Humbert’s authority was no less influential. Under him indeed he carried out a second important legation. In 1057, namely, as legate of the apostolic see, he conducted an inquiry into the election of Abbot Peter of Monte Cassino, which the pope found objectionable. By a fortunate turn of events, on the 23rd of May 1057 he brought it about that Frederick the chancellor — whom he knew to have been initiated into the new counsels of the apostolic see — was elected the new abbot. Hence, when the pope died on the 28th of July, Frederick recommended Humbert above all others as his successor. But Frederick himself was elected pope, and given the close familiarity in which they had long been joined, it is no wonder that Humbert, who had by then been promoted to librarian of the apostolic see — as is evident from bulls issued through his hand — was in close attendance on Pope Stephen IX. He is reported to have been present at Florence at the time of the pope’s death. On the 19th of April 1058, in obedience to the wishes of the deceased pope, he delivered to Desiderius the obedience of the abbacy of Monte Cassino. Thus this great abbey, through Humbert’s mediation once again obtaining an abbot zealous for the reform of discipline, drew ever more closely to the counsels of the apostolic see, whose leaders were striving to correct the whole Church by a single reformation. When Humbert was again residing at Florence in 1058, there can be no doubt that he took part in the election of Pope Nicholas II, which Hildebrand directed. How close a relationship Humbert the librarian had with this pope as well is clear from the words of Peter Damian, who called him and Bishop Boniface, cardinal bishop of Albano, the sharpest and most keen-sighted eyes of Pope Nicholas.
