---
reading: thomas-of-strasbourg-sentences-4.25
page: 364vb
pdf_page: 766
sortable_pagination_id: 766.2
---

inasmuch as everything that is called accessory with respect to another is ordered toward it in some way — yet it does not follow that one who has the art of war knows how to make a bridle. Since therefore the power of consecrating the body of Christ and the power of ordaining are not of the same nature, it is clear that the major premise in the matter at hand is false. Also the minor is not true: because by reason of implication \[*ratione implicationis*\], the power of conferring orders is in that case greater than the power of consecrating the body of Christ — for one who can ordain can also consecrate; for on the very day on which he ordains, he also consecrates the body of Christ, but not vice versa.

To the second \[argument\] it must be said that although spiritual power is not of lesser force than bodily power — indeed, speaking absolutely, it is of greater force, since it can produce an effect that bodily power cannot — nevertheless, with respect to making something like itself, it is of lesser force: because just as a prefect of the Imperial court can beget a son like himself, yet he cannot appoint a prefect like himself, since such an appointment either belongs immediately to the Emperor or to some superior official — so also because the spiritual power of which we speak establishes a man in a determined office and rank, it therefore does not always in such matters have the capacity to produce its like. For this purpose not even the power of sufficiency suffices — by which power, namely, one can hold such an office — but the power of redundance is also required, by which power one can establish another like oneself. Since therefore such a power of redundance is not found in every priest, not every priest can confer orders. In reply to the form of the argument it must also be said that the major premise is not true, insofar as it is applied to the matter at hand by the minor proposition: because spiritual power does not establish something like itself unless it is present with a certain redundance, and in such a way the spiritual power of which we are speaking is not found in just any of its subjects, but only in the greater prelates. Hence if every priest could ordain, or confer orders, then order would not be order — rather, horror and confusion would ensue. On account of which the Apostle said, in Hebrews 7: “Without any contradiction, what is lesser is blessed by the greater.” \[Hebrews 7:7\]

To the third \[argument\] I deny the consequence. In response to the proof of its first part it must be said that although a presbyter stands in the same relation to a presbyter as a bishop to a bishop in being, this is not the case in consecrating, as is clear from what has already been said.

To the second proof it must be said that in the ranks of offices and orders, not everything that exceeds another in power \[thereby\] has the capacity to establish another in the rank it exceeds. For even if a field commander \[*Campiductor*\], or a general \[*dux*\] of the Imperial army, exceeds in dignity the doorkeeper of the Imperial chamber, it is nonetheless not his business to establish such a doorkeeper — and this for the very reason that, although the general has sufficient power for the execution of his own proper office, he does not have the redundant power by which it would be his place to appoint a doorkeeper of the Royal or Imperial chamber. And so in the matter at hand, etc.

To the fourth \[argument\] it must be said that even granted that Cardinal presbyters can sometimes confer minor orders, this nonetheless does not belong to them by common law as it does to bishops, but rather by special grace; and this is not contrary to the aforesaid conclusion.

### Conclusion 2.

is that a simple presbyter cannot consecrate a bishop: because no one can give what he is known not to possess, as Augustinus says in the book *On Free Will* \[*De libero arbitrio*\]: but a simple presbyter does not have episcopal dignity, therefore by consecration he cannot confer it.

2. Furthermore, one who ordains a bishop cannot be of lesser authority than one who ordains a deacon or subdeacon: but neither by common law nor by special grace can it happen that anyone confer the order of deaconate or subdeaconate unless he is himself a bishop, as the doctors commonly say; therefore one who is not a bishop cannot consecrate a bishop.

3. Furthermore,
