---
reading: thomas-of-strasbourg-sentences-4.25
page: 365rb
pdf_page: 767
sortable_pagination_id: 767.2
---

ception of orders one always proceeds from a lower to a higher grade. The inference is also clear: for no less free and unimpeded power is required in the one who gives and confers a sacrament than in the one who receives it, since the agent must be more excellent than the patient, as is apparent from *De anima*, bk. 3 \[Aristotle, *De anima* III\]. And this conclusion can be proved expressly by the authorities of Innocentius \[I\], Gregorius \[I\], Cyprianus, Hieronymus, and Leo \[I\], which are set down here in the text at the first chapter of this distinction 25, at least as regards what this conclusion takes from the \[authorities concerning\] heretics.

The second conclusion is that, speaking in the second way concerning incapacity, none of the aforesaid persons is inca-

Second

pable of conferring the sacrament of orders, provided that

conclusion.

he observes in ordaining the form of the Catholic Church and intends to confer the sacrament of orders as it is intended in the Church. For as the priest stands with respect to the power of consecrating the body of Christ, so the bishop stands with respect to the power of conferring orders. But any priest whatsoever, however heretical he may be or subject to the aforesaid penalties, truly retains the power of confecting the body of Christ and truly confects it if he observes the form of the Church and intends, in pronouncing the words of the form over the due matter, what the Church intends — as is clear from what I said above at dist. 13, art. 2. Therefore any bishop whatsoever, however heretical or subject to canonical penalties, truly confers the sacrament of orders, provided that in ordaining he observes the form of the Church and intends what the Church intends.

It will perhaps be said: if in ordaining he were to observe the form of the Church and intend what the Church intends, then he would not be

Objection

a heretic.

I deny this inference; for although in this

Reply:

particular case he would not be a heretic, he could nonetheless in many other matters be a heretic, cut off and condemned by the Church.

Furthermore, in support of this conclusion there are clear authorities of Augustinus and Gregorius \[I\], which are placed at the second chapter of this distinction.

It will perhaps be said that none of the aforesaid can con-

Objection

fer the sacrament of penance; therefore none of the aforesaid can ordain a priest. The antecedent is clear from what I said at dist. 19, art. 3, concl. 2. The inference is proved: because one who confers sacerdotal ordination grants the authority to confer the sacrament of penance; but no one gives what he does not have; therefore if he himself cannot absolve, he will not be able to bestow on another the power of absolving, nor consequently to ordain a presbyter.

2. Furthermore, all the authorities of the first chapter of this distinction appear to militate quite strongly against this conclusion.

3. Furthermore, when certain powers are so related that one is inferior and depends upon another as upon a superior, then the inferior accomplishes nothing unless it remains conjoined with the superior power. But the power of the bishop depends upon the power of the Pope and of holy mother Church; therefore a bishop cut off from the Church cannot confer the sacrament of orders.

4. Furthermore, a bishop cut off from the Church is excluded from participation in the sacraments; therefore he appears to be excluded from the conferral of sacraments. The inference is clear: for it is far less to participate in a sacrament than to confer one. The antecedent is also clear: for if you grant the opposite, then he would not have been cut off from the Church.

To the first objection, I deny the inference.

To the proof, I say that granted that one of the aforesaid, in ordaining a priest, in some manner gives

Reply.

the power of conferring the sacrament of penance, he nevertheless does not give it free but bound — just as he himself also has such power in a bound state. For if he were to give such power or authority in an unbound state, he would be giving what he does not have, which is impossible. Hence anyone ordained by one of the aforesaid is suspended from the exercise of the power conferred upon him, until a dispensation has been granted to him
