---
reading: thomas-of-strasbourg-sentences-4.25
page: 365va
pdf_page: 768
sortable_pagination_id: 768.1
---

with respect to the fact that he presumed, against the prohibition of the Church, to receive the sacrament of orders from one of the aforesaid.

It will perhaps be said: just as in any of the aforesaid the authority or power of absolving is bound, so also in him is the power of ordaining bound. But on account of the binding of the power of absolving, he cannot absolve, and if he does absolve, everything he does is held to be void and null, because the one he absolved is not absolved; therefore, on account of the binding of the power of ordaining, he will not be able to perform the act of ordination, and granted that one who receives orders from him attempts it, he will not be ordained. The major premise holds: because both powers are understood to be bound for this reason, namely that their exercise is prohibited to him by the law itself. But the same law that prohibits each of the aforesaid from absolving also prohibits him from ordaining, since each of the aforesaid is suspended by the law itself from the exercise of his office; therefore, etc. The minor premise is granted by me and is commonly granted by all.

I reply to the major premise: although in any of the aforesaid bishops, both the power of absolving and the power of ordaining are bound by legal prohibition as to their exercise, nevertheless the power of absolving — or of conferring the sacrament of penance — is bound more, or in more ways, by such prohibition than is the power of ordaining or of conferring any other sacrament. For in all the other sacraments there is such a distance between the reality of the sacrament and its benefit that it is possible for someone to receive the reality of the sacrament who nevertheless does not receive the benefit of the sacrament, namely grace and charity. But in the sacrament of penance alone, reality and benefit cannot be separated from each other. For the reality of this sacrament consists in the fact that the penitent is absolved from sins; but absolution from sins cannot exist without grace and charity. And hence it follows that no one who approaches a sacrament insincerely \[*ficte*\] receives that sacrament truly — whereas the other sacraments an insincere person, such as one who is resolved to commit mortal sin, can truly receive. And therefore, whenever by the sentence of law or of a judge the power of absolving is bound in some priest, such a priest can neither by right nor in fact absolve. Not by right: because it is supposed that his power has been justly bound. Nor in fact: because whenever a sacrament is conferred or received in fact but not by right, it is so conferred and received as to the reality of the sacrament, yet the benefit of the sacrament is nevertheless neither conferred nor received. But, as has now been made clear, the reality of the sacrament of penance can neither be conferred nor received without charity or grace, which is the thing \[*res*\] and benefit of every sacrament; therefore, etc. Moreover, one who approaches the aforesaid priest for the sacrament of penance, knowing him to be bound, approaches insincerely — for he acts against the prohibition of the Church — and on this account cannot receive the grace that is the benefit of the sacrament of penance, nor consequently will he receive the sacrament or the reality of the sacrament of penance, on account of the inseparable connection of benefit with the reality of this sacrament. The opposite, however, holds in the conferral of the other sacraments: for granted that someone knowingly receives the sacrament of orders, or of confirmation, and so forth, from one whom he knows to be by right prohibited from conferring sacraments — though in so doing he sins mortally and approaches insincerely, and consequently does not receive the benefit of the sacrament, namely grace and charity — yet because the reality of these sacraments is separable from their benefit, even if not by right, yet in fact the one truly confers and the other truly receives such a sacrament. And this appears to be the express intention of blessed Augustinus, *bk. 2 Against Parmenianus* \[*Contra Epistulam Parmeniani* II\], where, speaking of heretics and those cut off from the Church, he says: “There is now no question but that they have \[the sacraments\] and can give them, but they have them perniciously and give them perniciously, because they are outside the bond of peace.” And that one ordained by such a bishop truly receives
