---
reading: maurice-sermon
page: 865
pdf_page: 900
sortable_pagination_id: 900.1
---

chapter 7: “The Old Testament, given from Mount Sinai into bondage, profits nothing except in so far as it bears witness to the New Testament.”

But the condition of the Old Law and Church was not destroyed except through simony. This is clear from a fourfold testimony.

First, from the Prophet who says: *Hear this, you princes of the house of Jacob, and you judges of the house of Israel, who abhor judgment and pervert all that is right, who build up Sion with blood, and Jerusalem with iniquity. Her princes have judged for bribes, and her priests have taught for hire, and her prophets divined for money; and they leaned upon the Lord, saying: Is not the Lord in the midst of us? No evil shall come upon us. Therefore, because of this, Sion shall be plowed as a field, Jerusalem shall be as a heap of stones, and the mountain of the temple as the high places of the forests*, Micah 3. And again, Hosea 3: *The children of Israel shall sit without king, and without prince, and without sacrifice, and without altar, and without ephod, and without teraphim*. Which things, alas, came all too swiftly.

Second, it is confirmed by the testimony of the Savior, when he said to the simoniacs whom he had cast out of the temple: *The kingdom of God shall be taken from you, and shall be given to a nation yielding the fruits thereof*, Matthew 21.

Third, through Augustinus, who shows that the fact that the sacrificial fire, which had lived seventy years under the waters, was extinguished when Antiochus sold the priesthood to Jason, displays the extinction of the priesthood.

Fourth, it is shown from a multitude of figures. For since simony is the disordered will to exchange the temporal for the spiritual, and conversely.

And I do not say: the zealous will to exchange. For a zealous exchange is praiseworthy, since the Apostle says: *If we have sown unto you spiritual things, is it a great matter if we reap your carnal things, etc.* For thus has the Lord also ordained, 1 Corinthians 9. He likewise urged an exchange of this kind when he said: *Make unto yourselves friends of the mammon of iniquity, that when you fail, they may receive you into everlasting dwellings*, Luke 16.

I said accordingly: *disordered* will. For it proceeds from disordered love, hatred
