---
reading: maurice-sermon
page: 867
pdf_page: 901
sortable_pagination_id: 901.1
---

And in support of the error it is alleged that the Pope does not sell the spiritual thing, but only the annexed temporal thing, together with which the spiritual passes — just as the right of patronage \[passes\] with the hereditary purchase of an estate.

But to these it is replied that they err, not knowing the divine Scriptures, by which we are taught that the temporal is, by the very fact of annexation, dedicated, so that it may be consecrated and converted into a spiritual thing.

Accordingly, if it is sold, it is assuredly sold as something spiritual. Which is plain both by reason and by authority.

By reason, I say. For the body of Christ is not of itself spiritual, insofar as it is a body: but by reason of its annexation to the divinity, which is the supreme spirit, it is said to be spiritual, although it has not passed over into the substance of the divine spirit, but has remained corporeal. The same judgment must be passed, similarly, concerning temporal provisions which are annexed to spiritual things.

By authority, I say, by which the Lord speaks to the Church in the old law, in the last \[chapter\] of Leviticus: Whatever has once been consecrated to the Lord, whether it be man, or animal, or field, shall not be sold, because it shall be the holy of holies — the Lord Himself speaking. And in the new, Matthew 23, \[it is said\] that the altar sanctifies the gift placed upon it, and thus the gift is spiritual. For it is sanctified to God, not dedicated to man. Whence a priest who gives a coin dedicated to God for whoredom incurs the crime of simony. According to which judgment, offerings are not properly said to be the priests’, but God’s. Just as the Lord Savior, saying: Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, does not add: Render unto the priests the things that are the priests’, but: The things that are God’s, unto God.

So that the Pope may understand that he is not the lord of the things annexed to the spiritual, but their dispenser and steward. And he is to be reputed as such, according to the Apostle, who says: Let a man so account of us, as ministers of Christ, and dispensers of the mysteries \[of God\].

But since here now it is required in a steward that a man be found faithful, 1 Corinthians 4, — inasmuch as our Jeroboams have made priests of the most worthless, namely of those who filled their hand — as is lamenta-
