---
reading: maurice-sermon
page: 868
pdf_page: 901
sortable_pagination_id: 901.2
---

as is lamentably inferred from the schism of the Church, to which their simony gave occasion. Concerning this matter, by the authority of this sacred council, which is reforming the schism of the Church, the wounds of simony must be healed.

First, in so far as simoniacs of this sort are to be charitably admonished, that they may worthily do penance, or at least that, like Judas the betrayer, the first simoniac of the new law, they may resign and restore the benefices they have received, just as Judas threw down the pieces of silver — though without hanging themselves, Matthew 27.

Nor are other modes of penance to be considered to exist. For just as in every genus the first is the measure of all that follow, according to Metaphysics X, so the penance of Judas, the first simoniac of the new law, having undergone hanging, is the rule of penance for all subsequent simoniacs. And if they refuse to repent, from that point they are to be ejected from their benefices until the election of the Supreme Pontiff, after the example of the first council in Ezra 2, where the Church of the Old Law, dispersed by the Babylonian captivity, is not read to have been restored on the return to Jerusalem except by the ejection of priests who could not show a just title to their benefice. For it says concerning the sons of Abia, etc.: “These sought the writing of their genealogy and found it not, and they were cast out from the priesthood, that they should not eat of the holy of holies” — that is, of the food pertaining to priests — “until there should arise a priest learned and perfect.” For at that time the priesthood passed authentically by hereditary succession, such as the Aaronic priesthood divinely established of old in Exodus 28. And this succession through a legitimate genealogical line then gave only the title to the benefice. This ceased after the virgin birth, by which priests, as professors of chastity, are promoted for the multiplication of spiritual offspring.

But if they refuse to yield their benefices, then let them be expelled with fury, after the example of the Savior, who, coming most meekly upon an ass, zealously ejected these same men, called them thieves and robbers, and called the temple, on account of simony, a den of thieves, Matthew 21.

Forbidding simoniacs to enter it, he called himself the door of the Church, John 10. In
