---
reading: maurice-sermon
page: 869
pdf_page: 902
sortable_pagination_id: 902.1
---

In the mystery of which, Exodus 12, the door is stained on both posts with the blood of the lamb, showing that entry is only through the blood of Christ. And those who enter otherwise — namely, simoniacally — he abandons as incorrigible to the destroying Angel.

At last, once expulsion has been carried out, they are to be most severely punished. As is evident in Gehazi, 2 Kings 5, to whom Elisha is read to have said: “The leprosy of Naaman shall cleave to thee, and to thy seed for ever.”

Now since Gehazi is not read to have left any natural offspring, it is clear that Elisha prophesied concerning the changed seed of the simoniac clergy, as though despairing of the extermination of simoniacs by the Church.

## 

For, first, in the Roman curia there will be no lack of servitors of prelates seeking promotions. Such servitude blessed Gregorius calls simoniacal, because it is a gift from obeisance \[munus ab obsequio\].

## 

Nor, secondly, is there a lack of promoters of honoraria and gratuities, after the example of Gehazi, who, once the healing had been accomplished without any pact, although his master did not consent, nevertheless secretly, in the name of his master Elisha, is read to have received honoraria as a gift from the hand \[munus a manu\], according to blessed Gregorius.

## 

Nor, thirdly, are there lacking proctors and advocates, any more than there are lawsuits. Such labors blessed Gregorius reckons as simoniacal, as a gift from the tongue \[munus a lingua\]. For he says in the book of the *Moralia*, chapter nine: “Very often some men seek certain earthly rewards and defend justice, and they reckon themselves innocent and exult in being defenders of rectitude. If from these the hope of money is withdrawn, they cease from the defense of justice. And yet those think themselves defenders of justice, and proclaim themselves upright, who seek not rectitude but money. Against such it is well said through Moses: ‘Justly shall he pursue what is just.’ For unjustly does he pursue what is just who is moved to the defense of justice not by zeal for virtue but by love of temporal things. But justly does he pursue what is just when we expect neither praise nor rewards from men.” Thus Gregorius.

## 

But why do I kick against the goad,
