---
reading: maurice-sermon
page: 870
pdf_page: 902
sortable_pagination_id: 902.2
---

beating the wind, since I hear the Prophet saying: In vain has the smelter smelted, for their wickedness has not been consumed.

One thing, however, I set forth, which I have brought with me from my own region: that this sacred council is in no way freed from common infamy unless it exterminates Simony. For the common opinion of the people, although false and heretical, cries out that Iohannes Hus was sentenced by the council as though it had judged him as severely as the Savior judged the simoniacs, against whom he, though condemned, had preached most vehemently.

I wished to bring this into the midst as the second point I had to say to you.

I said thirdly that I see you gathered for the purpose of raising up the dignity of the priesthood. Hence I have this third conclusion to state to you: that you cannot raise up the dignity of the priesthood unless you strive so far as you can to destroy the promotion of boys, the ignorant, and the wicked.

This is urged thus: because the prelacy of such men is the ruinous destruction of the priesthood. Therefore their destruction will be the raising up of the priesthood. Such an inference is drawn from opposites.

And further, the position concerning the foregoing is made clear inductively by authority, reason, and example.

## 

By authority, because they are forbidden by the Apostle to be promoted to the priesthood, 1 Timothy 3: Not a neophyte in faith, nor a novice in morals. Such are boys, whether in age or in uprightness. Whence the boy of a hundred years is cursed, Isaiah 65.

## 

And reason: because on account of burgeoning adolescence, in which they follow the passions of the vices, and because of inexperience, they are barred from ecclesiastical rule. For the art of arts is the governance of souls, according to blessed Gregorius, *Pastoral Rule* book 1, chapter 2.

Moreover, if such men do not possess the moral sciences useful to their hearers, from Ethics 1, chapter 2, how shall they be teachers of moral science? — which prelates must be. They are not in the state of acquiring perfection, as religious are, according to blessed Benedictus in the last chapter of his Rule. But rather they are in the state of exercising virtue and perfection, to be spread abroad to others in a prelatical manner. As blessed
