---
reading: maurice-sermon
page: 872
pdf_page: 903
sortable_pagination_id: 903.2
---

tery you shall obtain a crown in faith, you shall receive the knowledge of both testaments, when the things signified agree with the signs. Otherwise, according to Gilbertus, *De abusionibus*, nothing is more foolish, on account of the discrepancy of the signs, than a crowned ass and a blind watchman.

Truly, since ecclesiastical prelates are the books and exemplars of the laity, in which they ought to read humanity, chastity, and every virtue, the Savior himself saying to them: You are the light of the world, Matthew 5 — light, I say, not only that you may see, but that you may be seen. As he adds: So let your light shine before men, that they may see your good works. Hence children and scandalous persons are barred from the governance of prelacies, as bad exemplars, blaspheming the name of the Lord, in which is read avarice, luxury, pride, and every wickedness. Whence such books would deserve to be corrected, or certainly burned. For according to blessed Gregorius, *Moralia* 16, just as the life of the just is living reading, so the scandalous life of prelates is the damnation of their subjects, the Lord complaining through the Prophet: My people have become a lost flock; their shepherds have led them astray.

These things I had to say to Your Holiness, in order to expel the demon of silence, whose vice the Prophet Isaiah, imputing to himself in chapter 6, says, Woe is me, because I have kept silent, fearing royal offense, so gravely that on account of this he judged himself to be removed from the office of prophecy, and unable to be purged except by a fiery coal, which blessed Hieronymus interprets as mercy.

As for you, however, to conclude all the foregoing in the words of the Prince of the Apostles, 2 Peter 1: applying all care, so that you may bear all the burdens of the Catholic Church, minister in your faith virtue, and in virtue knowledge, and in knowledge abstinence, and in abstinence patience, and in patience piety, and in piety love of the brotherhood, and in love of the brotherhood charity. For if these things be with you and abound, they will make you neither empty nor without fruit in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. To whom
