---
reading: cudworth-galatians-6-6
page: 467
pdf_page: 489
sortable_pagination_id: 489
---

# 6 Let him that is taught in the word, make him that hath taught him, partaker of all his goods.

In these words the Apostle laieth downe an other rule, touching the maintenance of the ministerie, and competencie of allowance for the Ministers of the word: for it seemeth that the Ministerie among the Galatians, was at that time much neglected, at least, not so respected as it ought.

In handling of the rule, I will first shew the meaning of the words; secondly, the reasons of the rule: thirdly, the obiections against it: lastly, the doctrine, and vses, that are to bee gathered from it.

## The meaning.

*Let him that is taught)* The word translated *taught,* signifieth him that is catechized, or taught familiarly by word of mouth, or liuely voyce, as when children are taught the first principles of religion. But heere it hath a larger signification (as Oecumenius hath well obserued) for him that is any way taught and instructed, whether it bee in the first principles, and rudiments, or in points of greater difficultie; whether plainely and familiarly, (as Catechizers vse to doe:) or more profoundly, for the instruction of the learned.

*Taught in the word)* What needes this addition (may some say) is there any catechizing without the word? *Answ.* The Apostle addeth *in the word,* to shew that hee meaneth not so much the doctrine of Christian religion, contained in the Scriptures, as the doctrine of the Gospel, which by an *exoche,* or peculiar excellency, is called *the word, Act.* 16.6, *They were forbidden of the holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia:* which is expounded, v. 10. to be the preaching of the Gospel. Thus it is vsed, *Act.* 14.25, *when they had preached the word*
