---
reading: cudworth-galatians-6-6
page: 468
pdf_page: 490
sortable_pagination_id: 490
---

word in Perga. Marke 4. 14, The sower soweth the word. And in sundry other places. And it is further called the word of the kingdome, Mattew 13.19, because it teacheth what is the kingdome of grace, and glory : and because it being beleeved or (as the Apostle speakes) being mingled with faith in our hearts, doth make vs free denizens of the kingdome of grace in this life, and doth aduance vs to the kingdome of glory in the life to come. Secondly, it is called the word of God, because he is the authour of it, and no creature, man, or Angel, 2.Theff.3.13. Thirdly, the word of saluation, Actes 13.26, because it shewes the way and meanes of attaining saluation. Lastly, the word of life, Actes 5.20, because it doeth not onely shew the narrow way, that leadeth to eternall life, but is in it selfe a liuely word, and mightie in operation, Hebr.4.12. For as the powerfull word of God in the beginning, did giue being to things that were not; so the Gospell (being the power of God to saluation to euery one that beleeueth,) doeth make new creatures, by the immortall seed of the word.

*Make him that taught him.*] q.d. catechised him. Yet as before, it must be taken generally for any kinde of teaching, or instruction; for so the word is vsed elsewhere in Scripture, as Luke 1.4. Act. 18.25. Romanes 2.18. 1.Corinth.14.19. So that this giueth vs no iust occasion to speake of the originall, maner, vse, and profit of catechizing.

*Partaker of his goods.*] By goods he vnderstandeth food, raiment, lodging, bookes, and other necessaries, without the which a Minister of the word cannot follow his calling; for Paul calleth these goods, according to the common opinion, which so iudgeth of them. Luke 12.19. Soule, thou hast much goods laid vp for many yeeres. Luke 19.25. Sonne, remember that thou in thy life time receiuedst thy good things.

*Make them partaker.*] That is, communicate, affoord, giue vnto them these temporall things, seeing they giue you spirituall.

*Of all his goods.*] Not in giuing all away, but imparting to their teachers what they stand in need of, accounting nothing too deare for them. The Papists vpon this ground, take tithes of all, as the Priestes did in the Leuiticall law : whereas Paul speakes nothing of tithes.

There are foure principall duties, which the people are to performe to their Pastour, three of them are recorded elsewhere in Scripture. The first is, to heare them as Embassadours sent of God, with reuerence. The second is, to obey them, & submit themselues
