---
reading: cudworth-galatians-6-6
page: 469
pdf_page: 491
sortable_pagination_id: 491
---

vnto them in the Lord. The third, to loue and honor them for the workes sake. The fourth, the Apostle speakes of in this place, to giue them not onely countenance, but also maintenance.

The reasons of this rule are many and weightie.

I. Wee are bound (euen by the bond of nature) to maintaine our parents if they be in want; because they maintained vs, and gaue vnto vs our being: Paul saith, It is an honest thing and acceptable before God, for children to recompence their parents and progenitors, 1. Tim. 5.4. Now if this bee so, men are bound by the same right to maintaine their spirituall fathers in Christ, that haue begotten them anew by the preaching of the word: as Paul saith, Hee trauelled in paine of the Galatians, till Christ was formed in them, Gal. 4. and that hee begate Onesimus in his bonds, Philem. v. 10. And, 1. Cor. 4. 15. In Christ Iesus I haue begotten you through the Gospell. Hence Paul commendeth the Galatians, Gal. 4. 15. for that if it had been possible, they would haue plucked out their eyes, and haue giuen them him. And surely, wee owe vnto our spirituall parents, and fathers in Christ, not onely this temporall trash, but euen our selues, as Paul saith to Philem. verie 19. Albeit I doe not say vnto thee that thou owest vnto mee, euen thine owne selfe.

II. It is a law of nations, and a conclusion grounded vpon common equitie, that those that watch, labour, and spend themselues as a candle, to giue light to others, and that for the common good of all, should bee maintained of the common stocke by all. And the Lord chargeth all the twelue Tribes, euen all Israel, Deut. 12. 1. Beware that thou forsakest not the Leuite, so long as thou liuest on the earth.

III. Euery trade, calling, and condition of life, is able to maintaine them that liue therein (as experience shewes:) therefore wee may not thinke that the ministery, being the highest calling, should bee so base or barren, as that it cannot competently maintaine them that attend thereupon.

IV. The Ministers are the Lords souldiers, his captaines, and standard-bearers, and therefore are not to goe a warfare at their owne coste: the Lords labourers in his vineyard, and therefore are worthy of their wages, and ought to eate of the fruite of the vineyard: the Lords shepheardes, set ouer the flocke of Christ to feed his sheepe, and therefore ought to eate of the milke of the flocke. And seeing it was forbidden, that no man should muzzle the mouth of the oxe, that treadeth out the corne: shall we thinke that God would haue those that thresh in his floore, and separate the wheate from the chaffe, the precious from the vile, to be muzzeled,
