---
reading: cudworth-galatians-6-6
page: 470
pdf_page: 492
sortable_pagination_id: 492
---

or not to liue vpon their labours : For they are worthy double honour, that is all honour, reuerence, helpe, and furtherance, which labour in the word and doctrine, 1. Tim. 5.17.

V. The Ministers are to giue themselues wholly to reading, exhortation, doctrine, and to continue therein, 1. Tim. 4.13,15,16 they are wholly to deuote themselues to the building of the Church; and to the fighting of the Lords battels : and therefore not to be entangled with the cares of this life, 2. Tim. 2.4. Therefore they are to haue their pay, and their allowance, that so they may attend vpon their callings, without distraction.

VI. It is the ordinance of God (as Paul saith, 1. Corinth. 9.14.) that they which preach the Gospell, should liue of the Gospell; therefore those that doe not their endeauour, and inlarge not their liberality to vphold and maintaine the Ministry in good estate, they withstand (as much as in them lieth) the ordinance of God: besides, they waste and make hauocke of the Church of God: and are guiltie of the blood of all that perish for want of instruction.

I adde further, it is the will of God, that the Ministers which labour in the word and doctrine, should be plentifully and liberally provided for: (yet with moderation, that they draw not all mens wealth into their purses, as the Pope and Church of Rome haue done into their coffers, of whom it is truly verified; Religio peperit diuitias, sed filia deuorauit matrem.) which I prooue from the Leuitical law: for the whole land of promise, being no bigger in compasse then Wales, or the fourth part of England: yet yeelded vnto the Leuites, at the appointment of God, besides the share which they had out of the sacrifices, besides tenths, first fruits, &c. fortie eight cities with their suburbs.

It may here be demanded, whether the Ministers of the word are now to be maintained by common contribution, and liberality of the people, or not?

Answer, We must consider, that if the Ministers be sufficiently provided for, by set stipends, as by some foundation, or by the reuenewes of the Church, men are not bound to contribute vnto them, and make them partakers of all their goods; although in regard of thankfulnesse, they owe vnto them, euen themselues, as Paul telleth Philemon; but onely such as haue not else wherewith to maintaine themselues. And we must consider the reason why Paul commandeth all that are instructed in the word, to make them that instructed them, partakers of their goods, to wit, because in Pauls time, and long after, the Church was not endowed with lands or goods,
