---
reading: cudworth-galatians-6-6
page: 471
pdf_page: 493
sortable_pagination_id: 493
---

goods, whereby the Ministerie might be vpholden ; neither had it publike Christian Magistrates ; but was vnder cruell tyrants in persecution: and therefore those that were taught in the word, were to maintaine their teachers by liberal contribution, otherwise they might starve: but now the Church beeing greatly inriched, they may without contribution be sufficiently maintained of the Church goods.

And it is much more convenient for the Ministers to bee maintained by set stipends , arising from goods proper to the Church , then by voluntarie contribution ; it may appeare by this, in that it cuts off sundry inconueniences, which in voluntarie contributions, either cannot be, or are hardly auoyded. First, flatterie, and suspition of flatterie, in beeing thought to haue some persons in admiration , because of advantage. Secondly, the poorer sort are no way disgraced by this meanes, as they should bee in contributions , except they did giue ratably as the rest. Thirdly, dissembling and deceite, in making as though they receiued little, whenas they haue much, is cut off in a set stipend. Fourthly, the euill disposed would not so easily cast off their Minister, and seeke a new that would teach for lesse, or would giue nothing at all, if they were touched to the quicke, and galled for their sinnes. Fiftly, ostentation in some, in giuing much, and disdaining those that giue lesse. Sixtly, suspition of couetousnesse and filthy lucre in the Ministers, in seeming to take of those to whom they ought to giue. Seuenthly, disgrace of the Ministery, in gathering themselues, or sending others to gather the peoples liberalitie from doore to doore. Lastly, a set stipend comes nearer the order appointed by God, in maintaining the Priesthood vnder the Leuiticall law.

In the next place, I will answer the common obiections that are made to the contrarie, by such as thinke it as easie a matter, to say Service in the Church , as to doe seruice in the house: to stand at the Altar of God, as to followe their masters plough; to preach in the Pulpit, as to talke in the tauerne.

## I. Obiect. 2. Thess. 3. 10, They which will not worke, must not eate.

But Ministers neuer plow, nor sawe, nor hedge, nor ditch, nor vse any painfull labour: for of all men they haue the easiest liues: their greatest paines is to reade ouer a few bookes, or to speake a few words, once or twise a week. Therfore they are not to be maintained. Answer. There is a twofold labour; one of the bodie, another of the minde: now albeite the Ministers doe not weary themselues
