---
reading: cudworth-galatians-6-6
page: 472
pdf_page: 494
sortable_pagination_id: 494
---

selues in bodily labour, yet they are not therefore idle: for the labours of the minde doe farre exceed the labours of the body; they are more painefull, they spend the spirits more, they consume naturall moisture, and bring old age sooner. The holy Ghost calleth the ministery the workes of the ministerie, Eph.4.12. nay a worthy worke, 1.Tim.3.1. therefore Paul saith, that those Elders are worthy double honour that labour in the word and doctrine, 1.Tim.5.17. and he exhorts the Thessalonians that they would know them that labour among them; and that they haue them in singular loue for their workes sake, 1.Thes.5.12,13. Hence it is that the Scripture doth vsually to compare the worke of the ministery to the most toylesome labour that may be, as to the worke of the husbandman, to setting, to plowing, to sowing, to reaping, to the labour in the vineyard: and the minister to a builder, to a sheepheard that watcheth his flocke, to a souldier that fighteth in the warres, &c. Againe, ye may not iudge of the painefulness of the calling by the outward appearance: for so a man would thinke a King had the easiest life of all, when as the truth is, the toyle which he takes, and the cares wherewith he is possessed doe exceede all other cares: if a man knew the trauaile that is required to the weilding of a scepter, and the paine to that is taken in wearing of a heauy crowne, he would hardly stoope downe, to take the one into his hands, or to set the other vpon his head. The Master builder doth not hew the stones, nor worke the morter, nor carry the rubbish, nor any such drudgerie; but onely standeth by, and directeth the workemen; and yet his labour is double to any of theirs. The Master of a ship (a man would thinke) were idle, and did nothing: he stands not to the tackling, he stirreth not the pumpe, he driueth not the oares, he soundeth not the deepe, he rideth not the ropes; but onely sitteth still at the sterne, and looketh to the pole starre, and guideth the compasse; yet his labour passeth all the rest: were it not for him, the shippe would runne her selfe vnder the water, or strike vpon the rockes, or be split vpon the sands, or fall foule vpon another (as marriners speake.) Euen so for all the world fareth it with the Ministers of the word: they seeme to sit still, to be at ease, to doe nothing; and yet their labour is double and treble to other mens bodily labour, except they bee vnfaithfull, and doe the worke of the Lord negligently.

## II. Obiect.

Paul laboured with his hands in making of Tents, Act.18.3. that hee might not be chargeable to any, Act.20.34. 2.Thes.3.8. Therefore Preachers are to maintaine themselues by their handy labour, and not be chargeable to the Church. *Ans.* Pauls example proueth
