---
reading: cudworth-galatians-6-6
page: 473
pdf_page: 495
sortable_pagination_id: 495
---

neth not, that the minister ought to liue by the labour of his hands: for first, himselfe received a contribution of the Philippians, when he was absent from them, Philip. 4.16. When I was in Thessalonica, ye sent once, and afterward againe for my necessitie. Therefore if Paul received exhibition from other Churches, where he did not labour, it is lawfull for the Ministers to receive of those whom they doe instruct. Secondly, consider the reasons why Paul would not take wages of the Church of Corinth, and some others. 1. lest he should be a burden vnto them. 2. Thes. 3.8. We wrought with labour and travell day and night, because we would not be chargeable to any of you. 2. Cor. 11.9. In all things I kept and will keepe my selfe, that I should not be grievous unto you. II. That hee might give a president or example to others to tread in his steppes. 2. Thes. 3.9. Not but that we had authoritie, but that wee might make our selues an example to them to follow vs. III. That he might manifest what his end was in teaching the Gospel, not to seeke himselfe, but the saluation of his hearers. 2. Cor. 12.14. I seeke not yours, but you. And verse 19. Wee doe all things for your edification. Philip. 4.17. Not that I desire a gift, but the fruit which may further your reckoning. IV. That he might confound the false Apostles which taught not freely, but received wages for their labour, whereas he received none; or lest they should slander him and his ministery, if he should receive wages; that he did it for filthy lucre. 2. Cor. 11.12. But what I doe, that will I doe, that I may cut away occasion from them which desire occasion, that they might be found like vnto vs in that wherein they reioyce. Therefore Pauls example is altogether impertinent, and prooues nothing. For first, he himselfe tooke wages: Secondly, when as he refused it, it was vpon speciall consideration: thirdly, he did not onely permit, but also command that the Ministers should be maintained.

## III. Obiect.

Mathew 10.8. Freely ye have received, freely give: therefore as it was unlawfull for the Apostles to take any reward for their labour, so is it for preachers at this day. Answ. First, this text is specially to bee understood of the extraordinary gift of working miracles, which Christ having freely bestowed vpon them, hee would have them to use freely, not seeking thereby to enrich themselves by exacting or taking any thing, or to winne reputation and glory among men. Secondly, if wee understand it of the whole ministry, as well of preaching, as of working miracles, it is to be taken as a precept forbidding onely filthy lucre, that they should not make merchandize of the word of God, setting it to sale, in preaching the word with purpose to benefit themselves, to feede their bellies, or to get a name and reputation in the world, which is forbidden
