---
reading: cudworth-galatians-6-6
page: 474
pdf_page: 496
sortable_pagination_id: 496
---

bidden in other places, as 1. Tim. 3.3. Tit. 1.7. but for the glory of God, the discharge of their duties, and the saluation of their hearers. Great reason there is of this precept. First, because the graces of God exhibited vnto vs in the preaching of the word, are so precious, that they cannot be valued at any price, all earthly things a man can desire, are not to be compared to them, as the wise man saith; therefore Peter said to Simon Magus, Thy money perish with thee, because thou thinkest that the gift of God may be obtained by money, Act. 8. 20. 2. Because it is not in mans power to sell them, seeing he is not Lord ouer them, but steward and dispenser of them, 1. Cor. 4. 1. 3. Because that which God hath giuen freely, ought not to be sold basely; seeing by that meanes, that is made saleable, which God would haue free, which kind of merchandize is vsed in the Church of Rome at this day, in their Indulgences, wherein they sell pardons for remission of sinnes, and set euen heauen it selfe to sale, for a small sinne of money. Thirdly, this text must so be expounded as that it crosse not other precepts in this commission, and that Christ be not contrary to himselfe, which he should be, if it were vnlawfull for preachers to take any thing for their paines: for in the 10. verse he saith, The workeman is worthy of his meate; therefore hee may receiue it: and verse 11. he enioyes them to enquire in euery towne where they came, who is worthy, and there abide. Therefore they were not vtterly barred from taking all necessaries, for they might take their lodging, their food, their raiment, with this they were to bee content, and more then this they might not take, though it were offered them, or forced vpon them. Thus Eliezed refused the gift offered him by Naaman, for curing his leprosie, lest Gods gifts should be made a gaine, or lest that which was giuen to set forth Gods glory immediately, should be an occasion of satisfying mens greedy desires.

## IV. Obiect.

Math. 10. 9. The Apostles are forbidden by Christ, to possesse gold, or siluer, &c. Answ. We may not precisely take the letter of the text, for so we shall make the Apostles practise contrary to Christs precept: and so he should condemne himselfe, for he had his bagge, which Iudas bare. He had besides his vpper garment, Iohn 13. 4. and coate without seame, Iohn 19. 23. Luke 22. 36. Peter had sandalls, Act. 12. Paul had a cloake, 2. Tim 4. Yea Christ afterwards saith vnto them, But now hee that hath a bagge let him take it, and likewise a scrip. &c. Secondly, it was a temporary precept, giuen them in commission onely for that present, and their going without gold, siluer, a scrip, two coates, shooes, a staffe, signifies that they should goe in haste, committing themselues wholly to the proui-
