---
reading: cudworth-galatians-6-6
page: 475
pdf_page: 497
sortable_pagination_id: 497
---

decree of God, not caring for provision or victuals, which is signified by a crop, by silver and gold, nor of change of raiment, signified by two coates: nor of defending themselves against violence, by the staffe.

## §9. Vse.

Here we see that there are two sorts of men in the Church, some teachers, others to be taught, called in scripture teachers and hearers. The ground of this distinction, is taken from the good pleasure of God, who hath ordained that man should be taught by man, partly because of mans weakenesse, who could not endure the glory and maiesty of God, speaking vnto him: partly, that nothing might be ascribed to the excellency of the instrument, in the conversion of men; but that God might have all the glory of it, as the Apostle saith, 2. Corinthians. 4.7. We haue this treasure in earthen vessels; that the excellency of that power might be of God, and not of man. There is set downe, Deut. 5. verse 23. &c. a notable ground for the institution of the holy ministry of man, in stead of Gods liuely voice from heaven. And it was one of the ends which God had in giving his law in so great maiesty, to teach vs, that it is for our good, that he doth not instruct vs with his owne liuely voice from heaven, and speake vnto vs in his owne person: and that therefore we should be content, nay desirous rather to be taught by man. For when the people desired that they might not heare the voice of the Lord any more, but that Moses might speake vnto them, The Lord answered, They haue done well to say so, I will raise them vp a Prophet from among their brethren like vnto thee, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speake vnto them all that I command him. Deut. 18. verses 17.18. This crosseth the curiosity of those, who not contenting themselves with the word of God delivered by the ministry of man, desire that God would speake vnto them with his owne mouth from heaven. For the Israelites found it by experience, that it was a fearfull thing, full of horror and astonishment to heare the voice of God; therefore they desire they may heare it no more, lest they die. Deut. 5. verse 25. But the Anabaptists obiect that vnder the N.T., Ier. 31.34. Ioh. 6. verse 45. and Heb. 8.13. they shall not teach every man his neighbour, and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord. Therefore the publike ministry is now needlesse. Ans. The words must not be vnderstood simply, but comparatively, and intend not that vnder the new Testament, then was vnder the old. The Apostle saith not, that there shall be no teaching at al (for Christ hath giuen some to be Prophets, others Pastors & teachers, for the
