---
reading: cudworth-galatians-6-6
page: 476
pdf_page: 498
sortable_pagination_id: 498
---

the ministery, and the edification of the body of Christ. Ephes. 4.11.12. But that there shall be no neede of this kind of teaching; to catechize them in the first rudiments, as to teach them what God is. Synecdochically, not of perfect and absolute knowledge, for we all know but in part, 1. Cor. 13.12. But of initiate, or inchoate knowledge, which shall be consummate in the life to come.

Further, upon this distinction followeth, that hearers are not to intermeddle with the publike duties of the ministery; for every man is to abide in the calling wherein God hath placed him, and therein to live contented, 1. Cor. 7. For no man may take unto himselfe this honour, but he that is called, as was Aaron. Heb. 5.4. For albeit it be true which Ambrose writeth, that in the beginning of the preaching of the Gospel, and founding of the Church of the New Testament, all Christians did teach and baptize indifferently; yet afterward, when the Churches were founded, it is not lawfull, neither is it now. And though there be neither male nor female in Christ, but we are all one in him, Gal. 3.28. Namely, in receiving of the Gospell: yet in dispensing of it; there is great difference; it being unlawfull for a woman to preach, or publikely to teach. I permit not a woman to teach, 1. Tim. 2.12. Let women keepe silence in the Churches; for it is not permitted unto them to speake, 1. Cor. 14.34. Apocalyps 2.20. This condemneth the fantasticall opinion of the Anabaptists, that all men may speake publikely without any difference, according to the instinct of the Spirit, and measure of his gifts.

Againe, when Paul saith, He that is taught in the word, &c. him that taught him in the word, &c. he shewes what the duty of the Minister is, that lookes to live by his ministery, namely, not to feede his auditory with Philosophy, or fables, or lying Legendes; nor to preach Schoole Scions, Thomisme, Scotisme, tedious questions, niceties, Popish decrees, or humane constitutions, or to tickle the itching eares of his auditory with the fine ringing sentences of the heathen: for what is the chaffe to the wheat? but he must preach the word of God; for there is no word nor writing in the world besides, that hath a promise to be the power of God to salvation, Rom. 1. able to make men wise to salvation, 2. Tim. 3.15. to give an inheritance amongst them that are sanctified, Acts. 20. To be lively and mighty in operation, sharper then any two edged sword, entring through, even to the dividing asunder of the soule and the Spirit; the joynts and the marrow, and to be a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the hearts, Hebrewes 4.12. and that can make the man of God absolute to every good work, 2. Timoth. 3.17. but onely this word
