---
reading: cudworth-galatians-6-6
page: 477
pdf_page: 499
sortable_pagination_id: 499
---

word given by divine inspiration. It beeing not onely the seede by which we are begotten and borne anew, but the foode by which we are nourished: both milke for the babe, that is, a novice in religion, and strong meate for him that is of yeares: and therefore being perfect nourishment, the bread of life for him that is hungry, and the water of life for him that is thirsty, what needes there any more! Besides no word nor writing hath the property of fire save onely the word of God, to dispell the darkenesse of ignorance by enlightening the minde with the saving knowledge of the truth, and to inflame the affection with a zeale of Gods glory, by burning vp the corruption of nature. Againe Divinitiy is the Mistris; all liberall arts, tongues, histories, &c. are but handmaids to attend vpon her: now when the mistris is speaking, it is good manners for the maide to hold her peace. To this word alone the Prophets were tyed by their commission: What I shall command thee, that thou shalt say. And the Apostles, You shall teach what I have commanded you. Christ himselfe taught nothing but that which hee had heard and receiued of his Father. Ioh. 8. 28. Paul deliuers nothing but that which he receiued of Christ, 1. Corinth. 11. 23. and nothing but that which Moses and the Prophets had written, Act. 26. 22. Paul commands Timothie to charge the Pastours of Ephesus, that they teach no diuers doctrine; either for matter or manner, for substance or circumstance. Yet here we must take heede of extremities: for in some cases it is lawfull in preaching to vse the testimony of prophane writers, and quotations of the Fathers.

## I.

When we have to deale with heathen men (who will not bee so much mooued with the authority of the Scriptures) wee may convict them by the testimonie of their owne writers, as Paul did the Athenians, Epicures, and Stoikes, by the testimonie of Aratus, Acts 17. 28. and the Grecians by the testimonie of Epimenides, Tit. 1. 12.

## II.

In preaching to a mixt congregation, where some are infected with Poperie, or some other heresie, and will not receive the doctrine delivered, nor yeeld to the truth, except it beare the consent of the Fathers of the Church.

## III.

In handling of some controversall point of divinitie, shewing, that the doctrine we teach is no new doctrine, but that which was taught in the Primitive Church, especially in speaking to the weake, who have not as yet left their old superstition wherein they were nuzzeled.

## IV.

To cut off the calumniations of the malicious adversaries, who
