---
reading: cudworth-galatians-6-6
page: 478
pdf_page: 500
sortable_pagination_id: 500
---

who must needs haue their mouthes stopped by some other meanes then by the Scriptures.

## V.

In the necessarie vnfolding of the meaning of certaine places of Scripture, which without Philosophy cannot be conceiued. In such a case we may vie humanity in descending to the reach and capacitie of the auditory, and to teach heauenly things, by earthly things, as our Sauiour Christ taught regeneration by the similitude of the wind, Ioh.3. Yet all these must be vsed, first Sparingly, secondly, when there is iust cause, thirdly, without ostentation, fourthly, deliuering nothing to the people, the ground whereof it is not in the word.

This shewes, that the maine scope of the ministery, is to preach the word purely, and to apply it powerfully to the consciences of men: and it condemnes all deceitfull handling of the word, and all buckster-like dealing in mingling wine and water together, wheat and chaffe, gold and drosse, in peruerting it with aguish and sottish conceits, in wresting it with allegories, tropologies and anagogies, & in wringing the text til they make it bleede, and so (as an ancient writer saith) presse the two dogges of the Scriptures, the old and new Testament, that in stead of milke they drinke nothing but blood. This teacheth the hearers likewise to rest contented with the bare words, without hungering after new doctrines, as the Athenians after newes, or being drawne away from the simplicitie that is in Christ, by the subtilty of seducers, or by deuices and quiddities of mans braine. Let those therefore which loth Manna, and long for Quailes, remember that if God giue them their desire, hee will also giue them their desert. Let them take heede lest he punish them with a famine, not of bread, nor a thirst of water, but of hearing the word. Amos.8.11. And let those that haue itching eares, in heaping vp to themselues a multitude of teachers, take heede also that they haue not tingling eares, when they shall heare of the iudgements of God for the contempt of his word.

Further, whereas Paul saith; He that teacheth is to be maintained: it is a good Item for all idle drones that will not labour, and all dumme dogges that cannot barke, they may not expect the maintenance which is due vnto the Ministers: for it is generally true of all men, and much more true of the Minister, that he which will not labour must not eate. And great reason it is that he which looketh for his hire, should doe his worke: he that would liue of the sacrifice, should minister at the altar: he that lookes to be fed with corporall bread, should breake vnto his hearers the bread of life: hee that would reape carnall things, should sow spirituall things, he that would
