---
reading: cudworth-galatians-6-6
page: 479
pdf_page: 501
sortable_pagination_id: 501
---

would not have his mouth muzled, should thresh out the corne: he that would drinke of the wine, should plant the grape: he that lookes for milke, should feede the flocke: that is, hee that will live of the Gospel, should teach the Gospel. It is a maxime not only of the Canon law, but grounded unto the law of nature, that beneficium postulat officium, a benefite requireth a duty; or more plainely, a benefite requireth an office, and diligence in the office. They therefore that care not so much for the feeding of the sheepe, as for the feeding of themselves, and feare not so much the losse of the flocke, as the losse of the fleece, doe not onely violate the law of God, but even the law of nations, and the law of nature.

Againe hence I gather, that those that labour in the word and doctrine, may lawfully take wages, albeit they have sufficient of their owne to maintaine themselves: it is the very equitie of this text. For if they that are instructed in the word, are to make those that instructed them, partakers of their goods: then it is lawfull for them which instruct and teach, to receive something in recompence of their labour, seeing that the labourer is worthy of his wages. Yet this one caveat must be remembred, that if receiving of wages be a hinderance to the Gospell (as it would have beene in Paul) it is not lawfull: for we may not so use our libertie, as that we thereby hinder the free course of the Gospell.

We may here further perceive the greate want of devotion which is in most men of these daies. For as the cry of the poore in the streetes, and at our doores, is an argument that there is no mercie, no bowels of pittie and compassion: So, in that there are so many needy poore wandring Levites, which would gladly serve for a morsell of bread, or a sute of raiment, it is a pregnant proofe there is very small devotion in men for the maintenance of religion, especially in those which are so straight laced, and short sleeved in bestowing any thing for the good of the Ministery, and yet in keeping of hounds and hawkes, and worse matters, in maintaining players, jesters, fooles, and such like, are very lavish and profuse, to their great cost. This hath beene the practise of the world, and the contemptible estate of the Ministerie in former times. Foure hundred false Prophets were richly provided for at Iezabels table, 1. King. 18. 19. whereas the true Prophets of God in the meane time were faine to hide their heads, having scarce bread and water, and that not without danger. Well, her practise shall condemne a number of professors; nay, our forefathers zeale and forwardnes, (notwithstanding they lived in blindnesse) shall condemne our coldnesse, in this behalfe: what speake I of our forefathers? even the
