---
reading: cudworth-galatians-6-6
page: 480
pdf_page: 502
sortable_pagination_id: 502
---

the stones in the ruinated Abbeys, and other religious houses, shall rise vp in iudgement against vs: for those places could maintaine thirtie or fourtie idle bellies, which did nothing but nuzle men in superstitious idolatrie: whereas now the same place will not competently maintaine one or two to instruct them in the way to eternall life. And no maruel: for we take from the Church, as fast as they gaue it. In old time they were wont to say *What shall we giue the man of God? 1 Sam. 9.* but now with the sacrilegious church-robbers, they say, *Come and let vs take the house of God in possession, Psal. 83. 12.* The Iewes were exceeding forward and liberall in their contribution to the Tabernacle, some brought gold, others siluer, silke, pretious stones; the meaner sort, rams skins, goats haire, &c. so that more then enough was offered by them, in such sort that Moses was forced to cause a proclamation to be made to slay the people from offering, Exod. 36. 5. 6. This their example in being so forward to contribute to the materiall temple, shall condemne our backwardnesse in conferring so little to the Ministers, who are the liuing emples of God; and to the ministerie which is in the place of the altar: for looke by how much God hath diminished the cost of the altar, and the charges of the ceremoniall worship vnder the old Testament, by so much more doth he require the Ministery to be maintained, and spirituall worship furthered in the New.

Lastly, if they that doe not put too their helping hand to vphold the Ministerie, are to be condemned, what condemnation trow we then belongs to sacrilegious persons that rob the Church of her reuenewes, and deuoure holy things?
