---
reading: ames-conscience-5.42
page: 237
pdf_page: 413
sortable_pagination_id: 413
---

38. A. 3. Some contracts are for the good of the giver alone, such as a deposit or a commission. Others are for the good of the receiver alone, such as a gift or a gratuitous loan. Others are for the good of both parties, such as purchase, lease, partnership, pledges, exchange, and the like. This distinction, however, although it properly depends on the nature of the contracts themselves, may be altered by the agreement of the parties, and many ends may be mixed together — as a deposit may sometimes serve the good of the depositary, and a gratuitous loan may also serve the good of the lender.

39. A. 4. To seek one’s own good alone in a contract which by its nature tends to the good of another, or of both parties, savors of fraud, and is often contrary to justice, but always contrary to Christian charity.

Quest. What is the effect of contracts?

40. A. 1. The effect of every lawful contract is the bond of obligation to perform that to which consent has been given. First, because everyone is bound to stand by what he has lawfully promised. Second, because from a promise and its acceptance, the other party has acquired the right and power to demand fulfillment of the promise. Hence it follows that no contract can be broken against the will of the party for whose benefit it was made.

41. A. 2. This obligation, because it does not extend beyond upright meaning, therefore sometimes ceases upon a mere chance occurrence or an unforeseen event that happens without fault on the part of the obliged party, seeing that it could not have been prevented by human foresight.

42. A. 3. But although, as a general rule and according to the nature of the thing itself, no one is bound by a chance occurrence that intervenes without his fault — yet he may be bound to bear such a chance by some particular agreement, because such an obligation can be valued at a certain price.
