---
reading: aphrahat-demonstrations-10.8
page: 460
pdf_page: 324
sortable_pagination_id: 324.2
---

# Demonstration X, §8

The Lord of the house has set me over the royal treasury and shown me there its vast resources; and when I had seen them, my mind was overwhelmed by the magnitude of that treasure. As I gazed, my eyes grew dim, my senses were carried away, and my thoughts were drawn off in many directions. Whoever takes from it grows rich himself and enriches others; he becomes open and ready to answer everything about which he is questioned. Even if many take from it, \[the treasure\] is not diminished; and if they give away all that they have received, what they hold will only increase. What they have freely received they ought also to give freely, in the same manner as they received it, and not to sell it for a price; for there is nothing that can be set on a level with it. The treasure never fails, nor are those who draw from it ever sated; while drinking they still thirst, while eating they still hunger. One who does not thirst cannot drink, nor can one who does not hunger eat. Many are filled by its hunger, and from its thirst springs gush forth. For one who draws near to the worship of God is like a thirsting man who, on coming to a spring, drinks and quenches his thirst, yet the spring is not lessened. Land in need of watering draws from the spring, yet its waters are in no way diminished; and the land, after it has drunk, must again be watered, while the spring is not reduced by the flow of its water. So it is with
