---
page: 10
pdf_page: 10
---
The  Epiftle  Dedicatorie.
but  bloud  :  Others,  w=skifall,,caſting  wild  Coloquintidainto  the
2.Pet.2.16,
pc:  of  the  childre  ofthe  prophets,
being  too  hally  to  learne,&  too
ignorantio  know  of  themſelues,what  they
ſhould  baue  gathcred.)
T  herefaggto  helpthe  ignorance
of  theone,and  hinder  the  malice
of  the  other(andioto  probt  the  moſt)belide  the  meaning,be  bath
POT
CLE
&.
briefly  drawne  out  ſuch.  doAtines  as  naturally  atife  from  thetext,
baba
the
rt
ad
dd
ſhewing  withall,  howthey  ought  to  be
aplied
for  confutation,cor-
rein,  inlracion,  conſolation,  Which  h<  hath  done  with  ſuch
dextcrity{artificially  matching  togethertwo  things,  beretcfore  in-
lociable,5revery,and  Perfpicuty)
elike(l  take  it)bath  not  bin
performed  heretofore  þy  any
Expoliterypon  this  Epillle  :  which
we  may  wellcall  the  key  of  =  new  Teſlament,intbatit  handleth
the  weightielt  points  of  dotrine,whether  we
the  necella-
ry  knowlcdgethereof,or  the  controverſies  ofthele  times,
T  herfore
Leather  after  he  had  once  publikely  expoundedit;toke  itin.hand  a-
gaine,  andinterpretedit  the  ſecond  time,  beginning(as  bimſelfe
laith)where  he  ended,according  to  the  ſaying  of  Syracides,  hen  4
E\:clel.19.5.
man  bath  done  what  be  can,
he  muſt  beginne  againe.  Which  Commentary,
ſecingit  hath  found  ſuch  good  intertainement  among(t  vs,beeipg
but  a  forrainer,and  haviog
loſt  much  of  his  (trength,  _  taken
winde  by  changing  from
etolavguage,as  wine from  one
velſell  -  —_  -  doubt  Key  RT
Oat  a  ſree  denizen,will
find  thelike  favour  and  acceptance,  the  rather,ifit  will  pleaſe  your
Honour  to  vouch(ateic  your  coun
ce  :  To  whole  proteQion
and  patronage  here  commed  it,as
STke  did  bis  Hiſtories  tothe
molt  noble  7  heophnin::  deliring  hereby  toteſtifie  my  bumble  duty
vnto  your  Honour,and  my  thankfulnesto  God  for  theriches  of  his
grace  beſtowed  vypon  Fou  ia  the  myllery  of  the  Goſpell,  for  your
zeale  of  Gods  glory,  your  loue  of  the  truth,  and  of  all  tholethat
vafainedly  embrace  the  truth.
Andthus  fearing  to  binder  the  courſe  of  your  more  ſerious  co-
gitations  &  actions,]  humbly  rake  my  leaue  :  Deliripg  the  Lord,
who  hath  promiſed  to  honour  thoſethat  honour  bim,  that  as  bee
t,51m.2.30.
hath  made  you  Honourablein  yournobleprogenitors,ſo  be  would
make  you  thriſe  ;jonoutable  in.  your  future
ſucceſſors,  and  long
cotinue  Fou  anotable  inſtrument  ynder  his  Highnes,  of  the  pezce
and  welizreof  yourcountry,ashithertobe  hath  done,accmpliſhing
all  your  delires  for  preſent  proſperity  and  future  felicity.  From
Emmannel  colledge  in  Cambridge;  Augult.  10.1604,
Your  Honours  moſt  humbly  denoted
Rafe  Cudworth.
19
