---
page: 79
pdf_page: 101
---
the  E  'pi/tle  tothe
NS,
Cha  P.2+
87
Thefieſt  is,  who  mult  ſatiſfie
Mreſtore  ?  Anwer.  Hethatis  the
cauſeofany  wrong  or  loſe  to  ofMrs;  and  all  they  that  are  accetſa-
ry.  Men  may  be  accellary  many  wayes,  by
cfhmaundement,by
counlel,by  conſent,  by  partnerſhip,by  receiuing,by  lilegce  when  a
man  ought  toſpeake,by  not  hindring  when  he  ooght  MiYgcr,  by
+...
not  manifeſting  that  which  he  ought  to  manifelt.
The  ſecondis,  To  whom  mult  reſtitution  be  made?  Anſw.  To
him  that  is  wronged,  and  beares  thelolle,  (if  the  party  be  knowne
and  —_  if  he  be  dead,to  his  heires  :  if  all  be  deadto  the  poore,
0  [ftheperſon  wronged  be  not  knowen  to  vs  (a8  often  it  falles  out)
then  reſtitution  is  to  be  made  to  the  Church,or  commonwealth,
and  reſtitution  is  to  be  turned  into  almes  for  the  poore,D  an.4.  24.
Moreover,  it  both  thegiaing  and  the  receiving  of  a  thing  bee  vn-
lawfull,  asin  bribes,  and  Simoniacall  gifts;  reſtitution  is  not  to  be
15  made  tothe  giuer  but  as  before,it  is  to  be  applied  to  common  vie,
ſpecially  to  reliefe.
The  third  point  is,  What  mult  be  reſtored  ?  A»ſwer.  Thethings
which  are  of  vs  vniultly  receiued,or  deteined,  either  knowen  to  vs
or  vaknowne,  It  they  be  knowne,  they  ate  in  their  owne  kind  to
20  bereſtored,or  invalue,Ex0d.21.19.  If  theparty,who  is  toreſtore,
bein  extreme  poverty,&  hauenot  wherwithto  makerecompenſe,
he  muſt  doe  that  which  becan,  that  is,  he  mult  ſhew  a  ready  and
willing  minde:  and  this  is  done  by  confeſſion,  and  by  craving  of
ardon.  1f  goods  tobereltored,  be  for  their  value  and  qualitic  va-
25
knowne,then  reſtitution  mult  be  madeaccordingtothe  iudgment
and  diſcretion  ofthe  that  are  wiſe.
T  he  foorth  point  is,  touching  thetime  when  ?  eL»ſw,  Inreſpe&t
of  preparation  of  mind,we  mull  preſently  ſatiſhe:  yet  notin
reſpect
of  execution.  For  the  act  of  reſtitution  may  be  deferred,
if  there
39  beignorauce  of  the  right,or  igovorance  of  the  fa  if  the  reſtorer  be
in  extreme  need  :  if  ypon  preſent  reſtitution,  life,  goods,  or  good
name  be  indangered.
T  hela(t  point  is,in  what  order  and  manner  reſtitution  is  to  bee
made?  Asf,  Thingscertain  muil  firſt  bereſtored,and  things  vncer-
35  tain  after.  Among  thingscertaine,  that  is,  which  certainly  belongs
vntoanother,  things  bought  &  not  delivered,  areto  beereltored,
and  Depoſita;things  committed  to  our  truſt.  |fthingsto  bereltared
0,
"4  IO
as
for  their  value  and  qualitie  bevncertain,the  order  is  this;Relſtitoti-
on  mult  be  made(accordiog  tothe  diſcretion  of  wiſemen  )in  ſame
49  part  :  andfor  therelt,  pardon  to  be  craved.  Againe,  in  re(titation
warineſſeis  to  be  vſed,le(t  by  the  ſupply  ing  the  loiſegofothermen,
we  make  to  our  [clues  the  lotle  of  a  good  name.
Againes
