---
page: 82
pdf_page: 104
---
Chap.2-
A  Commentarie
p08
99
muſt  wee  reſiſt  ?  Paul  anſwers  againe,  DepchoBinns  powers,  and
fpiritnall  wichedneſſe:  :  thatis;the  divelland  all  bis  angels,  It  may  be
{aid,we  have  no  dealing  with  them,for  they  vfenotto  appeare  vn-
tovs,  Anſw,  That  the  divell  comes  not  tovs  vilibly,but  io  the  per-
ſons  of  cuillmen,  andin  the  bad  examples  of  all  men.  T
his  made  $
Chriſt  ſay  to  Per\:r,  Mat.  16.2.3,  Come  behind  me,Satanyfor  thon  art  av
offence  1nto  me,  when  Peter  would.  baveditſnaded  him  from  going
to  Jeruſalem.  Again
it  may  be  ſaid,  /nwhat  things  muſt  we  reſiſt  them?
P  a«{  ao{wereth,/n  heauenly  things,v.12.that  is,in  things  which
per-
taine  to  Gods  kingdome,and  concerne  cither  the
{aluation  of  our  16
ſoules,or  the  worſhip  of  God.For  the  divel  ſecketh  by  all  maner  of
euils,to  hinder  theſe  good  things.  Moreover,
this  dutic  ofreliſting
evill,js  ſoneceſſary;that  we  multreſilt  ſinne,if  need  begtothe  very
ſhedding  of  our  blood,  Heb.  1  2.4,
Againe,we  hauein  P  as/an  example  of  boldneſſe  and  libertiein  t
reprooving  of  (in.  T  his  was  a  thing  commandedtothe  Prophets
and  Apollles,/ſai.58,1.  Crie
and  ſpare  not,  lift  vp  thywoice
like  arrum-
pet,  /ſhew  my  people  therr  tranſgreſſion.  lerem.1.  17.  Truſſe  vp  thy  loner,
ariſe  and  ſpeake  unto  them  all  that  I  command  thee  :  be  nat
afraid  of  their
faces  left  [  deſtroy  thee  beforethem.P.  Like  libertie  may  the  Miniſters  16
of  the  word  vie,  obſeruing  Pauls  rule.  2.7  un,1.7.  God  bath  not  given
vs  the  ſpirit  of  feare
but  of
power  and  of  lontyand
of  a  ſound  minds.  Where
he  ſets  downethree  caweats.  Firlt;that  this  libertic  in  reproouing,is
not  the  fruit  of  a  bold  and  raſh  diſpoſition,
but  it  is  a  fruit  of  Gods
ſpirit,and  ſo  tobe  ackvowledged,  Reade  Xfich.  3.8.  The  ſecond,  15
that  the  vſe  of  this  liberty  is  tu  be  ordered  by  a  ſound  mind,  wher-
by  wee  are  able  to  give  6goan  account  of  our  reprootes,both  for
the  matter,  and  manner  of  them,  The  third  =  all  our  admo-
nitions  mult  beeſcaſoved  and  tempered  with  loue  :  thatthey  tend
tothegood  and  ſaluation  of  them  that  are  reprooued.  Theſe  ca-  3*
ueats  obſerued,  libertiein  reprouing,  ſhall  never  waat  his  bleſſing,
[ſas.  50,7.
T  birdly,hereis  an  example  in  P««/,of  an  ingenuousand  honelt
mind.  When  heſees  Peter  do  amille,he  reprooues  him  to  his  face,
Contrary  tothis,isthe  commonpraRiſe  in  backbiting,whiſpering  35
and  tale-bearing,whereby  it  comes  fo  pale,  that
whenamanis  in
fauit,cuery  man  kgowes
it,  ſauce  he  which  is  in  fault,  T  his  vice  the
law
of  God  exprelly  forbids,  Lew,19.16,  Andit  is  the  property  ofa
good  manyver  to  take  wp  a  fale  report,  Pſal.t  5,  And  Dauid  reprooues
Saxl,becauſe  he  did  butlend  the  earetotale-bearers,ſaying  Where-  4®
fore  gineſt  thou  aneare  to  men;  words  that  ſaybebold,  D  anid  ſetketh  euil
ag»imſt  thee  *  1,Sam.2  4.10,
In
