---
page: 83
pdf_page: 105
---
the  Epiftle  tothe  Galatiarrs,
Chap.2.
91
>"  Jn  Pier,  who  when  hee  was  reprooued,madeno  reply,  wee  ſee
af
patienceand  homilitie,  whereby  he  humbled  him-
ſelfe  before  the  reproouer,  when  he  was  convicted  of  an  offence,
Thelike  was  in  David,  when  hee  ſaid,  Ler  therighteons  ſmite  mee,
5*  Pſalm.141.v.5.
-  Whereas
P  aw/hith,that  Perer  was  to  beblamed,or  condemned,
not  in
of  his  perſon,burof  bisexample  :  we  ſee  that  excel-
lent  mengcven  the  chicfe  Apoſtlesare  ſubie  toerre,  and  bedecei-
ued.{t  may  be  ſaid;-bow  then  may  wetruſtthem  in  theicwritings?
to  I  anſwer,  while
they  werein  deliveringany  thiog  to  the  Church,
whether  it  were  by
1,  or  writing  ,  they  were  guided  by  the
infallible
itand
could  noterre.  Otherwiſe  they
migbeerre,  when  they  were  out  ofthis  worke,in  mind,  will,  affe.
Ro
oration.  Thus  ms
w——  _  was  not  de-
'T  ;
razim
in
er.N
athan  was  deceiuedin
ginin
adaiceto  D  anidtovebiogee  boildiag  ot  the  temple.z  San  s.Ths
Apollles  at  theaſcenfion  of  Chriſt,  fill  dreamed  of  an  earthly
neſaying,  Woenwilttbou  reftore  the  kingdome  of  Iſrael  ?  Al.
1.  And  Peter  beeing  biddentoariſe,  and  eate  ot  things  forbidden
20  by  theceremoniallaw,ſaid,Norſs
Lord,  At;ro:14.
;  T  hus  thenzif  Peter  was  ſubie&to  crrour,the  pretended  ſuccel(-
ſoursof  Peter,uamely;the  Biſhops  of  Rome,  cannot  bee  freefrom
errout.|tizalleadged,
that  Petey  erred  io  lifcy  and  not  in  dodtrine.  l
anſwer,  it  was  ſoindeed:  yet  did  his  bad  exampletend  to  the  ruine
25  ofdaatine,  ifit  had not hin  prevented,  T  hereforetheerrour  that
was  inacte,ifwereſpe&ttheeuent,  wasin  dofrine,  Againe,!  an-
ſwer;thatan  crroor  inattion;  preſuppoſeth  an  errour  inminde,  or
at  the  leaſt,  ſome
becauſe  the  mind  is  the  beginning  of
thething  done.  T  bus  all  ſianers  are  called  ;gnoraxt  poſit  ebr,
30  5-2.Anditſcemesthattheerrour  of  Peter  was,that  of  twoecvils,  it
was  the  belt  to  chooſethe  1zile:  that  is  to  chooſe  rather
to  offend
the  Gentiles;theo  the  lewes,cowhom  be  was  an  Apollle  ſpecially
appointed.
Here  againe  wee  miſerable  wretcbes  are  taughtto  watch  and
35  pray,  that  God  would  notleade  vs  intotemptaticn  :  conſidering
molt  excellentmen
are  ſabie&  to  falling.  And  men  mult  bee  war-
ned  not  to  abuſe  Pere:  example  in
boulttering  themſelves  in  their
paughtie  waies  :  by  EIT  that  thebeſt  man  a-
liveiza  linger  thattheivit  man  falles  ſever  times  a  day.  For  the
40  placeinthe  Proxerbe:  24.16,  is  \
na  of  affliction,  not
of  (inne  5
the  iult  man  fallesſcues  times  a  day;that  is,he  fallesinto  manifold
perills.  And  farther,we  ſhould  not  onely  conſider  the  faules  of  iv(t
G  3
men,
