---
page: 84
pdf_page: 106
---
pon  -
A  Commentarit
Chap.2-
G21
men,  but  alſo  their  converfion/avd  _reperitance,  .  And  aganne,  to
Thoughthe
linne,  2nd  to  commit  (ine;  are  ewo(divers  things.
godly  linne;yet  doethey  not  keepeacourſein  {inning,and  goeon
bo
trom  linnctofinne,
/  140,  \  $.
12  For  before  certaine  came  from  1ames,  Inte...  4  With-the
Dinfefe  «i  fee
but  when  they  were  comegherwithdrew
Gemiiles  :
ring  them  that  were  of  the  tircunidhfion.  »'5\  >  501  05105-1197
iv  6  T)  if
|  Ins.
1  3  41d  other  1ewes  diſſembled  (i
WAY.
ATT
TW  AUS
that  Barnabas  Ow  ”
ws  £1  my  their  e1
i  (0
bipſecoridan{werio
the  fatter
The  Apoſtle  hath  propounded
verſe:  now  he  proceeds  tormakee  declaration  ofi\:it  -Aad-tirldbe
fets  downe  the  cauſe  why  Peter  wasreprouecd,atid  the  mane
of  re-
verſes,  namely  #eters  (in.  And  1
proofe,  The  cauſe  is  in  the  22.8113;
this  ſigQcis
(et  forth  by  foure  things.  -By  the  name  of  the  (in;  the
finne  &
of  the  linne,the  effects  of  the
matter  of  the  (inpet
The  name  of  the  (ipneis  noted,  when  P  a«/faith,
And  other  [ewet
dſſembled  likewiſe  with  hincoyverſe  1
3.  where  |  gather,  that  Peter  (in
was  Simulation.  Supntation  of  it  (elfe  is  a  thinginditicrent;
andac:  14
cording
to  circumllances.
is  either  good  orcuill,  Lawfull  Gmula-
tion  is,  when  men  conceit  that  which  they  may  lawfully  conceir,
and  (ignifie  ſomethiog
eithet  by  word  or  deed,  that  is  onely  belide
the  truth,  and  notcontrarieto  it.  This  wasthe  Sywwlatrow  of  7o-
,  who  carried  himſelfe  ata  {ranger  to  bis  beethren  in\:E
15
after
he  had  examined  then,  and  knew
who  they  were
This  was  the  Simw/4tion  of
Chriſty
wbowhen:
be
to
Emaus  ,wade  asthowgh
bee  won
Thas
Pauxl  a
the]
id
the  lIewie\:Ca.g.20.  Volawfyll  Simss
lation  is  that,  when  ſomething
is
Ggnified,
or  fained  agaioft.  che  3%-
truth,
or  to  the  preiudice  of  any.  Of  thiskinde  was  che  limwlation
of  F  eter,  which  tended  tothe  preiudice
of  the  Goſpel,  .andeo  the
offence  of  the  Gentiles.
T  he  ſecond  point  13the  matterofthe  finne,ortheſinneirſelfe,
which  was  on  this  maner.Firlt;among
the  Gentiles  at  Aorioch,he  35:
victh  Chriſtaa  libertiezio  cating  chings  forbiddeo  by  che  ceremo-
niall  law  :  yetafter
the
comi
cercaine
lewes  from  leruſalem;
h<feparates  himſelf
des,Gplajes
the  lew  among
the
lencs.Liketo  this  was  the
at  the  l{ravlires  betweene  God
and  Baal,1  A  18.24;  andthe
practiſeof  ſundry  men'  who  are  49
Proteſtants  with  vs;&  yetievothier  countries
goro  Maile:  66  the
practiſe
of  our  people,  who  chapgetheirreligion  with  theriaves,
Here
