---
page: 85
pdf_page: 107
---
the  Epyſile
to  the  Galatians.
-Chap.2.
9}
_:
Heere  wee ſee the  great  weaknelile
of  Peter,inthit
vpona  v
litle
occalion;andthat  preſently,  falles  away  from  his  od
to  his  old  courſe.  In  him  we  may  behold  our  owne  weakneſle,and
conſider  what  we  areliketo  doeinlikecaſe.  We  now  profeilethe
A  Golpelof  Chriſt  :  yet  if  any  occaſion  were  offered,it
15  to be  fea-
red;that  many  otvs  would
de  ealily  mooued
to  returne  to  our  old
prophaneneſle;  and  to  the  ſuperſtition  of  Poperie.  But  for  the
ſtaying  and  the  better  eſtabliſhing  of  our  minds,  let  vs  alwaies  re-
member,that  they  ſhal  periſh  who  withdraw  themſeluesfrom  their
2h  faith,  profeſſion,  and  obedience,  which  they  owe  vato  God,  Heby.
10.38.  Pſal.  7327.
2M
3h!i-o
-_
Againe,hereit
mult  bee  obſerucd,
that  Pas  in  deſcribing  the
ſiane,exprefſerh  twoaRtions,birearmg
with  the  Gentiles,
and  his  [epa-
ration  from them  the  firlt  good,  andthe  latter cuil.T  he  beginning  of
15  hisaction  was  good,  buttheendotit  was  naught.  The  reaſon  is
'  -  thischemanregenerateispartly
fleſh,  and  partly  ſpirit:  and  here-
it  isthat  when  we  wilthatwhichisgood,we  cannot  accom-
ſh  it,and  cuill  is  preſent
with  vs.  T  he  child  of  God  is  likealame
man  that  goes  the  right  way but  yet  halts  at  cuery  ſtep.  Abrabar
2,  3nd  Saredelire  ilſuc;that  is  from  theſpirit:  but  they  delireiiſue  by
Agar  their  handmaid  that  is  from  the  fleſh.  Rebecca  ſeeks
the  blel-
lingfor  /acob,that  is  a  workeof  theſpirit  :  but  ſheſeekes  it  by  lyivg,
that  is  from  the  fleſh  :  Perer  cates  with  the.  Gentiles,
that  is  from
Chriſtian  libertie:  hee  afterwards;
es  himſclfe,  that  is  from
2.5  Corruption.  T  hus  we  ſcethat  the  belt  works  ace  imperfeR,&  mix-
ed  with  corruption:  and  that  for  the  beſt  works  we  mult  bumble
our  ſclues,and  ſceke  pardonznot  in
ofthe  goodnelle  of  the
worke,but  in  reſpec  of  thedeteR  thereof.
[t  may  be  demanded,
how  the  a&  of  Peter  ſhould  bealin,con(i-
2,  dering  he  did  onely  ab(taine  trom  certaine  rticats,  that  be  might  a-
oid  the
offenceot  certain  lewes  ?  Anſwer.  The  tact  of  Perer,conli-
dered  by  it  ſelfe,is  nota  linne  :  for  Pax/  did  the  like  in  playing  the
lew:  but  the  circumſtance  makes  it  a  (in,  For  firlt  of  all  Perer  doth
notonly  abltaine  trom  mats  forbidden  by  the  ceremoniall  law,
;5  botalfo  he  withdraws  himſelfetrom  the  company  ot  theGentiles,
and  keepes  company  apart  with  the  lewes.  Secondly,heablitaines
not  among  the  lewes  at  [eruſalem,but  at  Aptiochamong  the  Gen-
tiles,wherea  little  before  he  had  openly  donethe  contrary,inving
his  Chriſtian  liberty.
T  hirdly,be  vicd  thisabſlinence  when  certain
49  lewes  came  from  leruſalem,to  ſearch  out  the  libertie  of  the  Gen-
tiles.  Fourthly,while  Petey  ſeeksto  avoid  the  {mall  offcuceof  ſome
lewes,he  incurresa  greater  —
of  allthe  Gentiles,  Laltly,th  -
