---
page: 108
pdf_page: 130
sortable_pagination_id: "108"
---
-  Chap2.
'  of  Commentarie
pon”
116
of  inne.  And  then
they  ſay,to  this  Pawlanſwers,  Gedforbid,  But  |
Coen  berdcubanrhetticonditethefinibetiip  wonder  becauſe
Þ  a«u/doth  no  wry  dire  confutation
of  this  obiection  in  the
hatoretn  erſi  ppoſe,that
tinueshis  formerſpeech,  ,
Panicon
even  tothe  endeofthechapter:  andthat  in  theſe  words  hee  vieth
a  third  reaſon,todilſwade
Petey  from  baiting,  betweenethe  lewes
and  Gentiles.  And  thereaſon  will  the  better  appeare,  it  weſcarch
the  meaning  of  the  wards.  /fwhile  we  be  inſtsfied  by  Chriſft,that  is,by
faith
in  Chriſt,  without  the  workesofthelaw,  #e  «rc  found  ſinners,
that  is,foand  in  ourſinnes,  nocfully  juſtified,  bur  are  furthertobe  **
joliviedby  the  workes  oftheliw.J;  Chy#  the  Miniſter
of  ſanne?  that
is,doth  it  not  hence  follow,that  Chriſt  miniſtred  vato  vs  occaſi-
EO
law?  God  forbid,that
is,  ye  docall  hold  it  with  meas  a  blaſpbemie,
thatChrift  ſhould  be  themiciſter  oflinne.
Theargumentthenis
framed  thus.  |fbecing  iuſtified
by  Chriſt,
we  remaine  (inners,  and  are  further  to  be  juſtified  by  the  law,then
Chriſtis  the  Miniſterof  lione:  but  Chriſt  isno  Miniſter  of  (igne:
EO  which  arc  iultified,  neede  not  furtherto  beiultif-  |
cd
Thevſe  Firſt,  welearocbence,  thatitisa  Labonte  tombs
Ia.$3,11,Deng.25.
He  brings
phreouf-
255-tob.  wp
oramerms  re  takes  away  the  ſinnes  -  world,  z;
Ofthis
all the  Prophetsgiue  teſtimonie.
42.10.43,  Therefore  A-
theiſts  are  no  better  then  diuells,that  recken  him
the  talle
Prophets  of  the  world.  And  many  of  them  that  proteſle
jor  Ser
to  beblamed,  that  make  Chriſt  the  greateſt  (inner  io  the
:  becavſe  Chriſt  diedfor  them  :  thereforethey  preſume  of  39
takelibertic  to
lit,
Paul  here  teacheth,thatthey  which  are  juſtified  by  Chriſt,
perfeRly  to  beiullifiedz  and  neede  not  further  to  be  jultified  by
EC  EEE
workes  ofthe  law.  It  may  beob-
3s
feelethem(clues
to  be  linners.  ,,
ron  ar
(in,isin  them
that  are iu-
Pry
ad  onde
imputed  tothem  by  God,and  withalhithathre-
wound
by  the  death  of  Chriſt.  Therefore  they
z  arenotreputed
[inners  before  God,  A  gaine;
Liner  beckiefhes.  that  they  which  are  juſtified,  muſt  confelle
theinſclues'  to  bee  (innersto  the  very  death.  An/iver.  Confellion  40
——_HQ
of  line
is  not'@  cauſe,  'buta  way  for the
Wu
