---
page: 109
pdf_page: 131
sortable_pagination_id: "109"
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.2-
119
Pro:28.14.  1.10b.1.9.,T  hevncoucring  ofour  ſinnes  is  the  way  to
coverthem,  before  God.  T  he  ſinnes  therefore  of  men  juſtified,
on  their  humbleand
ſerious  confellion;
are  not  linnes  imput
but  covered.
PB.
Vponthisdoarineit  followes,  that  there  is  nota  ſecond  juſtifi-
cation,  by  workes,  asthe
Papilts  teach.  For
he  that  is  juſtified  by
Chriſt,  is  fully
iuſtified,and
needes  not  further  be  iuſtified  by  any
thing
out  of  Chriſt,
as  by  the  law.  Againetheſame  perſons  teach;
that  our  (innes  are  done  away  by  the
death  of  Chriſt,  and  wee
10  iultified
io  our  baptiſme  :  and  that  if  wefall,  and  (inne  after  bap-
tiſms  ,  wee  'mult,doe  workes  of  penance  that  we  may  fatisfie
Gods  iuſtice,  and  be  further  iuſtifed  by  our  workes  and  ſuffe-
rings  But  then,  by  their  leaues,  after  we  areiuſtibed
by  Chriſt,
weare  found  {inners,and
we  arefurtherto
be  iultified  by  our  owne
15  workes,
Now  this  isthe  point,  which  Pas! bere  confuteth.
Againe,  by  this  doctrine
we  earne,  chat  Chriſt  alone  is  by  him»
ſelfe{uthcientsfor
our  iuſtification.  /»him  (faith  Pant)  are  wee  com-
plete,  Col.2:14.Heis  a  Well  of  grace  and
lite
never  dried  vp.  /ob
4,
14.  T  hiedly,we  mult  content  our  ſelues  with  him  alone,and  with
20  hisobedicacefor  ouriultification;  deſpiling  (inreſpeRot  him)  all
merits,
and  ſatisfations  done  by  man,
Laſtly,  here  weſce  what  mult  bethecareof  men  in  this  world  ;
ry
rye
ker  ee  —_  of  Chriſt.  It  was  Pax:
incipall  delice
to  bee  found
in
Chriſt,
haring
not  by  owne
vi
nes,
5  wcherighteeaſueſ  os  u  by  ae
premmtsrm  3
delice  ſhould  be  ia  vs  all.
18-  For  if
1  build  againe  the  things  which  1  hane  deftroicd,
1  make  my  fort  m—Sey
30
By  things  deſtroyed,  Pant  meanesthe  workes,or  the  iuſtice  of  the
law,  as  appeares  by  thenext  verſe  following,  where  rendrivg  a  rea-
ſon
of  this,he  ſaith,  &yebe  low  ]  am  dead  to  the  law.
T  heſe  words,  dependon
the  former  thus.  P  av!  had  faid  before,
35  that  Chriſt  was  nota  Miniſter  of  finne  voto  vs\:a0d  here  be  prooues
it  thus,  Hethat  buildsthe  juflice
of  the law  which  he  hath  deſtroi-
ed,  isa  Miniſter  of  {inne,)  or  miakes  himſclfea  ſinner  :  but  the
lewes,  and  Peter  by  bis  example,  build  the  iuſtice  of  the  law,
which
haye  deſtroied,,
and  ſo  doth  not  Chrilt:  therefore  the
40  lewes,and
Peter  4  makethenelues  finners,  wnd  Chriſt  doth  not
make  vs  fianers,
Voill
38  gh  1/7!
Herelet-vs  oblerae  the  modeſtic  and  merkenes
of  P.aw/.  The
things
