---
page: 11
pdf_page: 33
sortable_pagination_id: "11"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap.i;
24
9:  As  we  ſaid  before,
ſo  ſay  1  now  againe,  if  any  man  preach
onto  you  otherwiſe  then  ye  hae  rectiued,let  him  be  accurſed,
An  obieQion  might  bee  made  againſt  the  former  concluſion,
5  thus:  Butthe  moſjexcellent  a
the  Apoltles,/amer,Peter,/obn
(by  yourleaue)  teach  another  Goſpel  then  that  which  Pas/  had
preached,  To  this  obietion  hee  makes  anſwerein  this  verſe  ne-
gatiuely  ,  that  wboſoeuer  teacheth  another  Goſpel,is  accurſed,
whatſoever  he  be.  In  tbisanſwerethree  things  are  to  be  con(ide-
16  red:  &  linne,the  puniſhment
thereof,  and  a  ſuppoſition  ſeruivg  to
ihe  the  noe.
helingeis  to
in  the  cauſeof  our  ivſtification,  any  o-
ther  thing  beſides  that,  or  diners  to  that  which  P«w/taught  the  12ala-
tians,  though  it  bee  not  contrary.  Thus  much  thevery  wordes  mw  5.
x5  import;  and  the  ſame  wordes  are  againe  vied  in  thenext  verſe.
And  Paw/  bids  Timothic,  Anoid  them  that  teach  otherwiſe,that  is,  any
divers  dodrine  asnecellarie  toſaluation,  belides  that  which  hee
taught,  1.7.6.3.  And  therecaſunot  this  ſinne  is  :  becauſe  God
hath  given  thiscommaundement,  Wee  may  notdepart  from  his
29  \ord.totheright  band,ortothelettzneither  may  we  adde  thereto,
ortake  therefrom,  oſs.  1.v.7,8.  Dext.4.&  12.  Before  |  gatherany
doarine  bence;this  ground  is  to  belaid  down,that  Pa/  preached
all  the  couuſellof  God,  A.20.27.,  And  that  which  he  preached,be-
py  OO  he  wrote,or  ſome  other  of  the  _
25  {obn
20.31,  This  beiog  graunted  (whichis  a  certaine  tructh  )two
maine  concluſions
.  Once,  that  the  Scriptures  alone  by
them(elues,without  any  other  word,are  abwndamly  /»  fſictent  to  ſalu-
r:0n,whetber  we  regard  doctrines  of  faith,  or  maners.  For  he  that
delivers  any  doctrine
aut  of  ther,and  belide  them,as  neceflary  to
30  be  belecuedgsaccurled,
Theſecond  conclulion,is,that  vowritten  T  raditions,if  they  be
tendered  tovs,asa  part  of  Gods  word,  and  as  necetlary  to  ſaluati-
on  ,  they  are  ahowenations,  becaulc  they  are  doctrines  belide  the.
Goſpell  that  Pas!
preached.  And  the  Romane  religion  goes  to
;  5  theground:
becaulc
it  is  founded  on  T
radition,out  of,  and  belide
the  written  word,  Learncd  Papiltcs,  to  belpethemſelues,  wake  a
"double  anſwere.
One  is,that  they  aceaccuried  which  preach  other-
wiſe  then  Pasl  preached,  and  not  they  which  preach  otherwiſe.
then  hewric.  Bot  it  is  falſe  which  they  tay,tor  that  which  he  4  *  Prxter  qua.
4>  ched,he  writ.  A»g»/#ine  bavingrelation  to  therext  in  handyfaith,  ©21mt?  _
that  hee  is
accurſed  which  preacheth  any  thing  ©  beſide  that  which  we  bane  510
*  ©  reccined  inthe  Legail
and  Encogelicall  Seripinres,  Againe  be  —_—  duitatis.c,  3,
