---
page: 88
pdf_page: 110
---
A  Commintarie  yon
Chap-2.
96
Scripture,  is  tobe  preferred  beſore  a  whole  Coun.
bringing
[4it-man
that
Nice,
cell.P  aphnatizs  Rach  rothandibe  wholeConncell  of
inclined
to  errour.
14  But  when  1  ſaw  that  they  went  not.  with  @  right  faate  to
the  truth  of  the  Goſpel,  1
ſaid  ta  Peter  before
all  men  :  If  they  .
beeing
4  1ew  liueſt
as  the  Gentiles,  and  not  like  the  tevues,ooly
conſtraineſt  thou  the  Gemiles  to  doe  tike  the  1ewes  ?
1n  theſe  words,  Pa/ſets  downethe  reproofe  of  Peter,  and  the
whole  manner  of  it.  1o  it,  many  poiotsareto  be  conſidered,  The  19
firſt  is,the  time  of  this
and  that  was  ſo  ſooneas  Panlſaw
the  offence  of  Perer,Here  welearne,  thatwe  muſt  reſiſt,  and  cutoff
the  firſt  beginnings
of
,of  ſinne,
and  of  ſuperſtition,
becauſe
we  are  proneto  euill  :  and  therefore
ifit  once  ſet  footing
ls
in  vs,  it  willtakeplace.
T  he  ſecond  pointis,  the  foundation  of  the  reproofe
in  thele
-wordes[when  Iſaw,]  and  that  isa  terten  rettsy
Peter:  of
fence.  Here
we  areto  take  notice  ofthe  common
and  that
is,  that  we  vſe  to  cenſure,  and  condemne  men,  ſpecially  publike  .
perſons,  vpon  ſuſpitions,and  conieRtores  ,  and  hereſay.  Whereas  20
weſhould  not
our  mouthes
to  reproove,till
wee  hand  certen
knowledge
of
the  fault.  Moreouer,  pubhke  perſons,  as  Magiſtrates
and  Mini
their  priviledge,  that  an  accuſation
is  not  to
bereceiued
againſt  them,  without  there  bee  a  proofe
by  two  or
three  witneſſes.  1.  Tim.$.20,
15
Thethird  point  is,  the  fault
ed,which  is  here  expreſſed
by  an  other  name,  not  te  walke  with  aright  foore  to  the  truth  of  the  Gef-
pet:  thatis,  notto  conuerſewith  men,and  to  carrie  himſelte  ſo  as  he
may  bee  ſutable  to  the  (inceritie  of  the  Goſpel,  both  in  word,
anddeede.
30
Here  is  a  notable  dutie  ſet  downe  forall  men,  7  walke  with  an
enen  foote  1ccording  to  the  truth  of  the  Goſpell\:and  this  is  done,  when  in
word  and  deede,  andevery  way,  we  aſcribe  all  thegood  we  have,
orcan  doe,  to
to  mercie,and  to  Chrift:  when  again,in  word,
and  deede,  andevery  way,we  give  allthanks  toGod  for  grace  and
mercie  by  Chriſt.  Here  two  ſorts  of  men  are  toi1be  condemned,  as
havltersip  reſpeR  ofthe  trath  of  the  Goſpel.  The  firſtare  Papills,
who  ioyne  Chriſt  and  workes  in  the  cauſe  of  our  juſtification,and
ſaluation,
The  ſecond,are  carnall  Proteſtants,and  all  other  ſortsof
men,that  profeſſe  the  name  of  Chriſt,&  withalchallengetothem-  42
ſelues  a  libertie  to  live  asthey  liſt.  For  they  walke  contracie  to  the
Goſpel,  diſioyning  Iuſtificatioa  and  SanQifcation,  Faith  and
good
