---
page: 89
pdf_page: 111
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chaop.2,
27
od  life,remillioo
of  linn<)and  mortiication,  This  istherifeand
Non  our.  daies,,  We.  are  lightinthe  Locd,  but;  wee
be  not  as  children  of  light.\Ve  arecontent  to  come  ta  themar-
riage  of  the  Kings  ſagne,  but.  we  camenot  with  the  marriage  gar-
5,  mat.  ltisto  be
teared,this
very  lugs
will  baryſla  che  Golpel,  and
judgements  of  Gad  ypoays,  Letvstheretore,  repent
|  BLRRs  the
Four  yaeyen.and  baulting  lues:  an  PRenen  t  the  Lords  apger;  by
walking  worthic  the  Galpelot  Chrilt.,,._
i;  1g  will  be  (aid,  bow  mult  we  performe  this  dutie?  A»;
T  worules
10  muſt  berezembred.
T  be  firlt  isthat  wemult  have  and  carrie
in  vs
4vighs  Wenrteo  for
the  want  of  Napa  Sem  doe  condemned  ,
Ait.$,2  1,  Aright  beactisan  humble  $a  hore  heart.
The  bum;
blahaertls  wor  inthe  eſtimation  of  gur  owns  bearts,  wee  abaſe
our  lelues  vader  allcreatures
vpoa  earth,and  bat  tor  ovroffences?
15  When
againguin  the  atteRjonot
aur  hearts;  we  exalttbe  death,and
|  bloodat{hrilt-aboue  allrichea.aboug  lhonours,above  all  ples
lures  ,aboueallioyer,&aboueallthatheact  can  thinke,or  tongue
can  ſpeake.
T  he  honeft  beart  s;vhen
we  carrie,  audcheriſh  in  our
hearts  theſ{ctled  p
e  ot  not  linning:ſaas  it  we  lin  at  apy  time,
20  We  may  inthe  telticmonic  of  agoodcoulcicace  {ayy  that
we  linned
agaip(t  our  purpoſe.
T  be  ſecond  ruleis,that  we  muſt  make  (iraight
lteppes  to  our  teete,
Heb.
12,2  3,  And  that  is  doneywhen  weeendes>
ugur  toobey  Gad,according
toall  bis  commagdements,P/al;  1.49,
6.andalfo,according  to
all  the  powers
of  theinwatd  man,  that  is»
25  not  onely  in  ation,but  alſo  in  will,affeion,and  thought.  Let  vs
alſo  applie
our  hearts  to  the  doing  oi  thisy-  lealt  if  we  come  tothe
marriage  of  the  kings  ſon  without  the  garmevt-ofz  right  beart  and
life,
we  hearetbe  ſentence,  &mde  them  hand  andfeote  andeaſtrbem  in
to  iter  darkyesthere  ſball  be  weepmy  and  gnaſpmg  of  teeth,”
ich
rs
3*  Thefourth  point  is,the  place  ot  reprogte{before  ai  men;  For  they
that  (inne  openly  crothe  oftence  of  many,
are  openly  to  bereproc»
ved.  1,7  inv.5.20,;
_  .
The  ith  pgintis,  concerniog  thereaſonswhich  P  aut  victh  tor
thereſtraining  of  the  (innegtPerer.  T
he  felt  is  fet  down  in  the  26,
35  verie,  ifthoubeaing  «  [ew  Herethe  meaning  of  ſume  words  are
to  be  opened.
T  ©  lxdaizs,ur  to  line  as  4  Hew,  is  to  obſerue  (audthat
nccellacily,)
a  difference  of  meate*,  god  times  ,.  according  to,  the
ceremoniallaw  bf  17ſec.  To  Genibize,orio  luve,  as  4  (remleyis
to  vic
reates/u#0d  drinkes  ,aodrighes,  freely  withour  difference.  Peer
40  isfaid;t0  dompell  the  Gomtiled  to'[adatgr,  thet  by  teaching  of  any  do»
rivexforrhe  Apofiles  nevererred,'  inteaching  and  delivering  2-
ny.thingto  the  Church  of  Gad:  this  is:  principle:  therefore  hee
COU-
