---
page: 112
pdf_page: 134
sortable_pagination_id: "112"
---
upon
A  Commentarie
Chap.2..
120
The  ſecond.  poin?  is,  touching  the  meanes  of  our  death  tothe  .
law,and  that  is,the  law.  Here  ſome  by  the  law,voderſtand
the  law
of  auth,
that  is,the  Goſpel;Row.  3.27,  And  they  make  this  to  be  the
meaning  of  the  words,By  the  law  of  Chriſt,  that  is,  by  the  is  4a
10  the law  of  Moſes,  But  this  ſenſe,thoughit  bea
PL  dead
yet  F
queſtion,  hetberby  the
wil  it  not  ſtand  in  this  place.  For  itisthe
Goſpell  wec.be  freed  trom  thelaw  >  Now  Pw  a  learned  pa  64k
would  not  bring  the  queſtion
ſelfe.  Therfocel  take  the
to
true  meaning  of  the  words  tobethis  :  Bzthe  law  of  Moſer,  ]  am  dead
tothe  law  of  Moſes.  It  may  be  demanded  how  this  can  be,conſide-  0
ring  the law  is  the  cauſe  of  no  good  thing  in  vs  ?  For  it is  the  mini-
of  death  andcondemnation,  2.Cer,z.7,9.  +,  wars  hong
fiery
the  law  cannot  reveale,  it  cannot  worke  :  butthe  law  neither  can,
por  doth  revealefaith  in  Chriſt,  the  death  to  the  law,  norrepen-
tance,  &c.  therefore  the law  is  no  cauſe  to  worke them,  It  may  '*-
aduenture  be  ſaid  ,that  thelaw  workes  repentance,and  ſorrow
finne.  Ianſwer;
there  isa  double
ance,  One  Legal,  the.
other  Exangelicall.
Legal  is,yhen  men  have  a  (ight  of  their  linnes,
therof.
This  repentance
and  withal
for the
aregrieued
puni
iswrought
theminiſtery  of  the  law  :  it  wasio  /»das:  and  itis  no  ?2*
by
grace  ot  God  butofit
ſelfe  it  iothe  panel  Zoaglet  +  vr
rance
is,  when  being  turned  by  grace,wee  turne  our  {clues  to
This  repentanceis  a  gift
of  grace,  and  isnot  wrought  by  the  law,
of  the  Goſpek  Againe,there  is  a  Legal  ſorrow,
but  by  the  miniltery
which  is  a  ſorrow  for  (inne,  in  reſpe  of  thepuniſhment  :  this  is  *5
no  grace,andit  is  wrought  by  the  law.  Exangelicalſerrow,is
ſorrow
median  po  oF  1  none  A
recon-
not  w
aw
cil\:ation:  and  it  followes  in  vpon  the
ion
of  Gods
mercy  by  faith.  The
law  then  beiog  the  cauſe  of  no
in  30”
ing
vs,it  may  be  demanded  (1  ſay  )how  we  ſhould  beedead
by  the  law  ?  A#/;  Though  the law  beenota  cauſe  of
thi
the  law,and
it  is  an  occaſion  thereof,  Forit accu-
ſo  tolinne  :  yet
ſech,an;)  terrifieth,anJcondemnerh
vs:  and  therfore
it  occalionetb
or  vrgeth  vsto  flee  vnto  Chriſt,who
is  the  cauſe  that  wee
die  voto  3
the  law.  As  the  needle  goes  before,and  drawes  inthethred,which
makes
jowesthe  cloth;lothelaw  goes
a  way  that  grace
may  follow  after,aod  take  place  ig.  che  heart.  Thus  muſt  this  place
bee  vaderſiood,
and  all  other  places
that  ſpeakeof  the  law  in  this
manner  :  as  Kow.7.8
&c,
49
The  third  poiot  is,  touching  the  end  of  our  death  tothe  law  :
God.  It  may  beedemaunded,  _
and  that  is,that  we  way/inero
