---
page: 91
pdf_page: 113
---
the  Epiitle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.2.
99
Here  Paw/  layexdownetheſecond  reaſon  of  hisreproofe:  it  is
framed  thus,  T
hat  which  we  defend,both  in  iudgement  and  pra-
Qiſe,that  muſt  we  vrge,and  not  the  contrary  :  but  iullification  by
faith  without  works  wee  defend  both  in  iudgement  aud  practiſe:
5s  therfore  wemult  vrge  it,and  not  the  contrary,namely,the  nece(la-
ry  obſeruation  of  the  law.
The  mor
is  wanting:  the  minor  is  expreiſed  in  the  16.verſe,and
it  is  amplified  by  an  argument  of  things  divers,thus:  Though  we
be  lewes  to  whom  the  law  was  give  ;  yet  we  forſakethelaw,and
10  looketo  be  iuſtified  by  thefaith  of  Chriſt,  Secondly,  the  miner  is
confirmed  by  a  teltimony  of  the  P  /alme  v.16,  By  the  worksof  the  law
n9  fleſe ſhall  be
inſt1/icd.
Here  twopointsare  to  bee  handled,  One,of  the  diſtinion  of
15  the  lewes  and  Gentiles  :  the  other,of  iuſlification.
Touching  the  diſtinion  of  lewes  and  Gentiles,  ſundry  points
are  to  be  handled.  The  fr(t,  what  isthe  cauſe  of  this  diſtinion?
Anſwer.  The  good  will  and  pleafure  of  God,  A/oſes  faith,Godchoſe
the  Iſraclites  aboue  all  nationr,Dent.  7.6,  hee  loned  them,  Dent.  10.15,
when  he  dinided
the  nations,  [acob  was  his  portion,  Dext.32.3,  Hee  knew
20  them  aboue  all  nations,laith  Amos  3.1.  And  he  choſe  thern,  becauſe
be  loned  their  fatbers,Dent.4.37,  Hence  wegather,the  free  election
of  God:  andthat  they  aredecciued,  who  thioke,  that  there  was
nodifference  of  lewes  and  Gentiles  inreſpeRt  of  God,  but  iore-
ſpeRof  themſelues:  becauſethe  one  imbraced  Chriſt,  the  other
25  refuſed  Chriſt.  But  therecannot  be  a  refuſall  where  the  Meſhas
was  not  knowne:  and  among  the  Gentiles  he  was  not  ſo  much  as
named,Rom.15.20,
The  fecond  point  is,  wherin  (tandsthe  difference  of  lewes  and
Gentiles.  An/w,  Here  the  lewes  are  oppoſedto  (inners  of  the  Gen-
30  tiles:  and  therfore  by  the  lewes  are  meant  an  holy  &  peculiar  peo-
ple.  The  diſtinQion  thertorelies  in  this,  that  the  ane  was  holy,the
other  prophane  :  the  ope  in  the  couenant,  the  other  out  ofthe  co-
venant,Row.9.4-5.P(al.1  47.20.  Heretwoerrors  mult  be  auoyded.
One,that  the  difference  lay  in  earthly  things:  -
which  is  not  true.
35  For  thelaw  was  giuen  tothe  I{raclites:  and  it  was  «  /choolemaſter  to
Chrift,Gal.3.and  ax  introduttion  te  a  better  hepe,  Heb.7.1  9.T  heſecond
errour  is,that  they  differed  only  in  this,that  Chrilt  was  more  plen«
tifully  and  fully  revealed  tothe  lewes  :  more  darkly  and  ſparingly
tothe  Gentiles.  But  it  was  otherwiſe,  For  the  Gentiles  were  wahont
40  God  and  Chriſt,  Epbe.2.12.  and  they  were  left  to  themſcluesowalke
$1  their  ownewayes,  Alt,  14.16.
The  third  pointis,  bow  long  this  difference  endured  ?  don  |
ul.
