---
page: 92
pdf_page: 114
---
A  Commentarie  pon
Chap:  2:
£00
Till  thedeath  of  Chriſt.  For  the  Diſciples  were  forbidden  to  goe
into  the  way  of  the  Gentiles,farb.10,5,  And  Chrilt  ſaitb,that  bee
w4s  not  ſent,  but
to  the  loſt  ſheepe
of  the  bouſe  of  Iſrael,  Mat.15.22,  It
may  be  obieRed,  that  here  weſeethe  difference  of  ewes  and  Gen.
tiles,is  ſtandiog,loog  after  the  aſcenſion  of  Chriſt.  An/.  Chriſtin  5
his  death  did  tully  merit  the  aboliſhment  of  this  difference.  Epk,z.
Neuerthelelle  the  execution  of  this  aboliſhment  was  by  degrees  :
and  it  was  atthis  time  begun  by  the  miniltery  of  the  Apoliles,yet
not  accompliſhed,
T  he
laſt
poiptis,  that  the  lewes  are  an  holy  people  by  nature:  19
not  becauſe
holines
is  conueied  to  them  by  generation,
but  becauſe
euca  fromtheir  beginning,  and  birth,  by  vertue  of  the  covenant,
they  are  holy.  If  the  roote  be  holy,the  branches
are  bety,Rom.1  1.16,  If
cither  of  their  parents  belecueybe  children  are  boly,  1.Ceor.  7.14.  In
a  Civill  contrac,the  father  and  his  heire  make  but  one  perſon,and  's
the  father  coucnants  for  himſclfe,and  his  poſterity  :  even  ſo,inthe
couenant  ofgrace,he  beleeues
for  himſelfe,and  withall  makes  his
polterity  partaker  of  theſaid  couenant  :  and  thus  the  polterity
be-
comes  holy.  [t  may  be  obieQed,that  whatſocuer  is  borne  of  fleſh
1s  fleſh,  Anſwer  Theparent  ſuſtainesa  double  perſon.  Firſt,  beis  29
fo  be  conlideredas  a  childe  of  Adsw,  and  thus  be  brings  forth  a
childe,  having  with  Adews  nature,  Adams  corruption.  Againe,he
is  to  be  conſidered  as  a  beleeuer  :  and  thus  albeit  he  doth  not
pagate  bis  faith  and  holineiſeto  his  child,  yet  by  meanes  of  his
faith,  his  childe  is  in  the  covenant,  and  conſequently  is  to  be  ac-  25
counted  holy  in  the  iudgement  of  charitie,  till  God  manifeſt  the
contrary.  Againe,it  may  beobieed,that  if  the  children  of  belee-
uing  parents  be  borne  boly,they  on
bane.  An/w.  The
children  alſo  ſultaine  two  perſons.  Firſt,  they  are  conlidered  as
children  of  the  firſt  Adams  :  and  thus  they  are  conceived  and  49
borne  in  linne,  andare  children  of  wrath.  Againe,they  are  tobe
con(idered  as  children  ofbeleeuing  parents:  and  thus  by  meanes
of  the  couenant,  they  are  children  of  God  z  and  originall  lin  which
is  in  them  is  couered  from  their  firſt  beginning,  and  not  impu-
tedtothem,
35
Thevie.  There  wasno  abſolute  neceſſity  of  circumciſion.  For
they  which  dyed  before  the  eighth  day,were  borne  holy,and  con-
ſequently,in
the  couenant\:and  therefore  might  be  ſaved.  And  thus
Baptiſme  was  not  ofabſolute  necellity  :  for  thechildren  of  belee-
vers  are  borne  holy  and  Chriſtian  :  and  therefore  dying  io  the  4
want  of  Baptiſme,may  for  allthat  beſaued.
The  ſcale  of  the  coue-
want  is  not  of  like  necellity,with  the  couenant  it  (elfe.
Secondly
