---
page: 93
pdf_page: 115
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap.2.
IOI.
Secondly,  here  we  learne,  that  it  is  not  theaQt  of  Baptiſme  to
conferre  the  firſt  grace:  but  onely  toconfirmezand  ſeale  it  vato  vs.
Adoption,and  lite  begins  not  in  Baptiſme,
but  before.  If  the  roote  be
holygbe  on——  thence  are  ho/y.We  are  borne  Chriſtians,
z  ifour  parents
beleeue,and  not  madeſoin  Baptiſme.
Laltly,  if  we  be  borne  boly  :  it  is  our  ſhame  that  we  have  made
no  more  proceeding  in  holinetſe,then  we  have  done:  the  moſt  re-
maine  ignorant,and  vnreformed;and  they  of  the  better  ſort,cither
ſtand  at  a  ſtay,or  goe  backward.
The  ſecond  pointis,  concerning  Iuſtification  inthe  16.v.  of
which  ſundry  things  aretherepropounded,  And  firſt,  |
will  begin
with  thename,  T  be  word,  I«5tfie,  is  borrowed  from  courts  of
iudgement,and  (ignifies  a  iudiciallaRt.Otherwhiles  it  is  put  for  the
action  of  the  iudge,and  then  it  ſignifies  toabſoluc,ortopronounce
15  ipnocent.  Thus  Paxlaith,  47.23.39.  That  we  ave  inſtified  from  all
things  from  which  we  could  not  be  wſtified  by  the  law  of  Moſes,  that  is,
ued,orcleered.  Againe,heoppoſeth  iultification  toaccuſation,
and  condemnation;Kem.$.3;.  Now  the  contrary  to  condemnati-
onis  abſolution.  Sometimes  againe,the  word  /»#\:fie,ſignifies  the
2,  a  of  theparty  iudged,or  of  the  witnelles  \:andthen  it  imports  as
much,as  to  giue  te{timony,or  todeclare  and  approoue.
T  hus  [ames
faith,  Abrabam  was  inſtified  by  worker,  chap.2.v.  22.that  is,declared,
and  approoued  to  be  a  iuſt  man  by  workes.
lo  the  former  (ignifica--
tion  isthe  word  vied,  where  the  holy  Gholt  delivereth  the  doctrine
2;  Ofiultification,asinthis  place,
T  hevſe.  Here  weſce  how  to  diſtinguiſh  betweene  luſtification,
regeneration,  and  renouation.  Regeneration  is  vliually  in  ſcrip-
ture,  the  chaoge  ofthe  inward  man,  whereby  we  are  borne  anew.  .
Renouation  is,  the  change  both  of  the  inward  and  outward:
g  man,  that  is,  both  of  heart  and  life,  luſtification,  is  neither,
but
acertaine  ation  in  God  applied  vato  vs,  or  a  certaine  reſpect  or  -
relation,  whereby  we
are  acquit  of  our  linnes,and  accepted  tolhfe
everlaſting.Secondly,we  mult  here  note,  that  the  Teachers  of  the
Church  of  Rome,miſtake  the  word,/»/\:ficarion.  For  by  it,they  vn-
15  derſtand  nothing  elſe,  but  a  phyſicall  tranſmutation  of  the  quality,
and  diſpolition  of  our  hearts  from  euill,to  good.  And  by  this  milla-
King.they  have  made  a  mixture  orrather  confution;of
the  law  and
Goſpel.
T  hirdly,bere  we  ſee,whatis  to  be  thediſpolition  ot  the  par-
ty  ivſhfied:(for  by  thecoaſequent  we  may  learne  the  antecedent.)
42  A  man  therefore  that  would  be  iuſtified,  mu(t  come  before  the
iudgement  ſeateof  God,and  there  muſt  he  plead  guilry.and  be  his
one  aduerlary,condemnipg  himlelte  :  and  beipg  preiled  with  the
terrours
