---
page: 94
pdf_page: 116
---
Chap.2.
A  Commentarie  pon
[02
terrours  ofthe  law,he  mult  flie  and  make  his  y_  tothethrone
be  acquit,  orjuſti-
of  grace,for  pardon  in  Chri(t:  and  then  he  ſhall
fied  from  all  ſinnes.  Thus  much  doth  the  word,  /tsfie,  import,
Thus  camethe  Pablican  _  _  _  -  _  he  _  267
be  mercifullto
me  a  ſinner
eparted
julti
us
in
the
tition,  we  are
tto  comeeuery  day  into  the  preſence
of  God,
debts,and  to  viethe  plea  of  mercie,  fay-
and  to  cnonledge  or
ing,
Forgine
vs  our
T  heſ{econdthing  to  be  conlidered,  is  the  ſubieR  of  iuſtificati.
on,
or  the  perſon
to  be  juſtified,
and  that  is  man  generally,  (igni-  18
fying  that  wer  i  iuffsfied,
The  holy  Gholl  ſpeaketh  thug  general-
ly,for  two  cauſes.  T  be  firſt  is;  becauſe
all  men  without  exception
haveneedof  juſtification,  cuen  they  which  are  regenerate,Xow,z,
23.  Andin  this  place  one  be,and
Par,  andrherd  |
bauebeleenedin  Chriſt,  that  t
obt
be
inſtified  by  faith.  Here
we  are  1
to  take  notice  of  the  miſerable  condition  of  me  Leen  and  ſecure
Epicures,  who  never  ſo  much  as  dreame  of  any  ialtification.
The
ſecondreaſon
is  ;  becauſe  God  communicates  the  benehic  of  iulli-
fication,generally  to  all  ſorts  ofmen:  and  this  he  doth  in  the  Mini-
ſtery  of  the  word,  in  which  he  beſeecheth  ments  bereconciled  ro  God,  ,,
z.Corinth.5  v.21,  This  muſt  be an  inducement  vnto  vs,  to  come
vato.  Chriſt  ,  humbling
,  and  judging
our  ſelues,  that  wee
may  bee  iuſtified.  God
himſelte  from
heaven  vſeth  reaſons
ve»
to  vs  daily,  to  mooue  vs  to  the
praftiſe  of  this  duetie,  What
meanetheſe  gracious  and  continuall
preſeroations  of  Prince  and  1;
people,  Church  and  land  ?  By  them  wee  ſee,  it  is  the  goodplex-
ſure  of  God,  togiue  vsatime  to  ſeeke  his  kingdome  and
ri
ouſneſle  :  wherefore  let  vs  not  negleR  the  day
of  vilitation,
but
take  the  time  while  it  ſerues,  that  wee  may  turne  vato  God,  and
bee  ac
of  him,  and  eſcapethe
woe  pronounced  vpon  Core  46
Zin  and
Bethſaida.
T  he  thirdthing  to  bee  conſidered,conceroes  things  excluded
from  iullification,asfalſe  cauſes  :  namely  the  workes  of  the  law,
Hereit  may  be  demanded,what
works  are  meant.
|  «w/wer,firlt,not
onely
workes  of  theceremoniall  ,  but  alſo  of  the  morall  law,  For  5
all  men  know,that  ceremoniall  ations  are  of  no  vie,  vnleſſe  they
beioyned  with  moral  duties  of  loue  and  mercy.  Andif  P  aw/  meant
onely  ceremoniall  workes,  hee  needed  not  to  haue  made  fo
longs
diſcourſe  againſt  iuſtification  by  works  :  for  he  might  have
the  whole  matter  in  a  word  or  twaine,  by  ſhewing  that  the  cere+  $8
monialllaw,was  abrogated  by  Chrilt.Secondly,l  anſwer,that
not
onely  workes  done  before  faith  ,  are  excluded,  but  alſo  ven
