---
page: 117
pdf_page: 139
sortable_pagination_id: "117"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chop:2.
125
thy  dead  heart.  T  hirdly;if  thou  beleeuechy  ſelfto
be  crucibed  with
Chriſt,thou  ſhalt  ſee  the  length;the
be  hei
depth
of  the  loue  of  God  in  Chriſt,  Forthy  (inves  are  the{words,  &the
ſpeares  that  crucified  Chriſt:  and  yet  chou  haſtallthe  benefit  of  his
s  paſſion.  Laſtly,  if  thou  canſt  beleene  that  thou  art  crucified  with
Chriſt,thou  ſhalt  further  bee  affured,  that  he  is
with  thee
inall  thy  miſeries  and  affli  ions,  to  eaſe  thee,  and  to  make  thee  to
bearethem,1,Pet.4.13.  Col.  1,24,  *
"The  duties  hence  to  belearned,aretheſe.  Firft;if  thou  be  cruci-
to  fied  with  Chriſt,  then  muſt  thou  apply  thy  heart  to  crucifie  the
body  of  —  in  nes  4  mt  faſting,  by  avoiding  theoc-
caſions,  by  abltaining  fromtheprattiſe
of  Can  by  all  good
meanes.
,a  man  hangedvpon  a  gybber.  Thou  ſeelf  hee
hath  ſatisfied  the  law  :  and  thereisno  further  judiciall  proceediog
15  againſt  him:  and  withallcthouſeeſt  how  heceaſeth  from  histbefts,
mucders,  blaſphemies  :  even  ſo,  if  thou  cant  behold.  thy  ſelfe
ſpread  ypon  thecroſſeof  Chriſt,and  crucified  with  him,  therewill
be  in  theea  new  minde  and  diſpoſition  ,  and  thou  wiltceaſe  from
thine  olde  offences.  Againe,  beeing  crucified  with  Chriſt,  thou
26  mult  bee  conformable  to.Chriſt  in  thy  ſafferings.  Hee  ſuffered
in  loue,z  and;the  more  hispaſlion  increaſed,
the  more  he  ſhewed
his  love  :-  even-fo  in  thiveafflitionsandiufferings,  thy  loue  to
'Godand  man'  muſt  bee  increaſed,  though  man  bee  the  cauſe
of
thineafflitions.  Secondly,Chriſt  ſufferedia  obedience:  Net
my
25  will,but  thy  will  be  done  even  ſoinallthy  ſufferings  thou  muſt  re-
ſigne
thy  ſelfeto  God,and  quiet  thy  ſelfe  io  bis  will.  Thirdly,Chriſt
ſo
in  all  humilitie,  bumbling  birnſelfe  to  the  death  ofthe
croſſe  :  euenſo  we,in,and  vpon  our  afflitions,  arc  to  humble  our
ſelves  vnder  the  mightiebhandof  God;  confeſſiog  our  ſinnes,and
230  intreating  for  pardon.  Fourthly,he  ſuffered  in  faith  as  man
ding  on  his  fathers  goodnefle,cucn  in  the  middeſt  of  his  pa
evenſo  are  weto  doe.  Fifthly,  he  went  on  conſtantly  io  his  ſaffe-
rings  tothe  very  death  :  euen  {o  are  we  toſutfer  inthe  refiſtingat
ſinne,cuen  voto  the  ſhedding
of  ourblood.  Laſtly,  the  principall
35  care  of  Chrilt  was,to  ſee  the  truit  of  his  ſufferings  :  ſo  wben  weare
diſtreſſed,  our  care  muſt  rather  bee  to  ſee  the  fruit  of  our  diſtreſle,
then  to  ſeeke  deliverance.  This  conformitie  with  Chrilt  in  his  paſ-
ſion,is  an  infallible  work  and  tokenof  the  child  of
God,and  a  ſigne
that  we  are  crucified  with  Chriſt.
49
Apaine,  heere  wee  are  to  takenotice  of  the  falſe  faith  of  many
men.  They  can  bee  content  to  beleeue  that  Chrift  was  crucibed
tor  them  :  but  there  they  make
a  pauſe  :  for  they  doe  not  _—__
]  4
th;
