---
page: 118
pdf_page: 140
sortable_pagination_id: "118"
---
A  Commentarie
pon
Chap.  2-
126
chattbey
are  crucified  with  -Chriſk,  T  heir  faith  eherfore
is  but  halfe
a  faith  \:unitheir  protefſian  isatcording  Forthey,  haveths  tarme
ghereof,  They  chinkethat-ghey
of  godlinetle  without  the
power
arights-but
beleeuethe  Articles  of  faith
they  are  deceived.  For  to
belecuein  Chriſt  crucified,js  not  opely  to  belecuethbat  be  was  cru»  5
cified,  but  alſoto  belecue
awerneified  with  him.  And  thisigto
that.  /
know  Chriltcrocifed,-'t
314  +
to  Wh  +
bi
32
Laſtly,  here  we  areto  conſider  theabomination  of  the  Church
ofRome,  For  it  moſt  abuſeththat  which  isthe  greateſt  treaſure  in
the  world,namely,Cbrift  crucified.  For  they  make  @  very  Idol  of  19
him;in  that  they  worſhip  him  in;at,and  betore  paintedandcaryed
Crucibxes.  Forthereis  nofſuch  Cheift  in  heauen  or  in  earth,  chat
will  be  preſerit  wheri  wee  pray,and  heare  vsat.cracitixes.  Again,
oy  ive  Latriazdimine  honertQ  deviled  and  framed  crucitixes  ;  and
and  thus  thez  rob  Chrilt  of  bis  bonour.  -  -
Is
Thos  much  of  our  communion  with'Chriſt  ia  his  paſſion:  ngw
of  preparation,namely,  Abnegation,  [  lne,
folowesthe  ſecond  part
er  et  Pany  more:  \thatis,  |  live  a  ſpiritoall  lite,
yet  not1as  a
I  carrie
ecurall  man,  For  it  that
my  ſelfeas  a  man
ed,  orafter  themanner
of  a  dead  'man;ſuffering  nothing  that  is  in  ,,
me  by  nature  to  reignein.me,that  Chriſt  alone  may  live  &  regs
io  me.  Here.is  a  notable
dutie  tobe  learned:  we  becing  crucibe
tree  rept,  Flt  epervol  Comvpun  Mona  canes
Firltyin
three  r
paty
s.
Forin  ———  our  ſinnes,  wee  are  toelteeme  our  {clues  £4  25
thy.  of  meat,drinke,  lleepe;  breathing  :  yea,we  arcto  cltceme  aur”
as  any  of  thoereatoresypon
ſelves  tobeeasvile
and  weare
earth  ;
to  denievngodlinetle,
and  worldly
luflts,potfufferiogany  ofthery
to.  4
white  that  beloog
refiectef  che,
in
to  nature,
ings
as
1a
that
lg  leiveg  zends  :'  all  which'in  reſpe
ration.  of  ;
of
fake,  not  {uffcring
minde,
we  mult  daily  forlake  fog  Chrilts
any  of
them  totakeplacein
our  bearts,  Lallly,  wemault  bee  as  dead  men
in  rclpeR  of  our  owne  reaſddand  will,  'and  wee  mult  cread  them
vaderfoot,  making  Gods  will  our  wifedome  ,  and  will;  and  $  55
ving  it  lordſhip
and  dominion  over  vs,  our  owne  willes  in
meane  ſcaſon  lyiogdeadinvs,  Thug  are  wee  to  carrie  our  (clues
ar.  deadmen:  and  we  are  tobe  carefullof  it  ;  that  God  may  have
pleaſure  in  ys,we  muſt  forget  our  owne  peoplezand  our  farhers  bouje,PÞ
ſal,
445  10.  That  wemay  buy  the  pearle,we  mull  ſell  all  wee  haugour  46
willes,our  afteRions,  andthe  deareſt  things  in  the  world.  He  that
would  lwe  when  hee  is  dead,  muſt  die
while
he  is  alive:  and  w_
mu
