---
page: 98
pdf_page: 120
---
CE
Pe
Chee  ivthisregard  he  did
law  for  bimfelfe,  neither  was  he  bound  foto  doe.
notfulfillthe
Obie,  11,  Thatwhich  Chriltdid  ,
wearenot  boundto  doe:
but  Chriſt  (ay  ſome)  fulfilledthe
law  for  vs:  therefore
we  are  not
bound  tofulfillthelaw,  nſw.  That  which  Chriſt  did,  we  are  not
bound  todoe,  for  theſame  end,  andin  the  ſame  manner.  Now  be
redemption,and
falfilled  the  law  in  way  of
tal  10
way  of
for
ſodoe  not  wefulfill  thelaw,  but  onely  in
ourredemption.
Obie,  I  11,  Thelaw  doth  exaQt  both  obedience,
and  the
pe.  *'
naltie  alſo.  A»/w.  [n  the  eſtate  ofinnocenciethelaw
threatn  ed  the  |
and  it  onely  exaRted  obedience.  Since  the  falljit  exaReth  15
obedience,  and  oy”  The  threatniog  ofthelaw,
exact  the  puniſhment  ;  the  precepts
exact  obedience.
Obuct.  IV.  Heb.10,19.  Bythe  blood  of  Chriſt  wee  bane  entraxce
into  the  Holy  place,  Anſ.  By  the  blood
of
Chriſt,we
are  to  vnderſtand
the  Paſſion  :  and tbe
not  be
fromactiue,
and  22
yoluntarie  obedience,  For
Chriſtin
m—_———
ing,  ſaffered.  And  (2s  C:
ſaith)  che  Paſſions
a  kinds  of
atts
Humil.
2.  in
-,  Chrilt  ia  the
himſcife  did  notonel  ome
his
buc  alſo  praiers,  which  are  no  palhans,  Heb.  9:7.
he  ſeconderrouris  of  the  Papiſts  :  who  teach,  that
che  tbiog  15
by  which,  and for  which  ,  a  (inner  is  formally  inftified,
isrewfſion
of  (innes  ,  with  inherent
inſtice  infuſed  by  the  holy  G  beſt.  But  thiseannot
be.  For  inhereatiuſtice,  and
iuſtificatioo,  are
diſtioQ
of  God,  Pew/{tith  ,
Chriſt  is  made  vatovr  of  God,  wiſedowe,  inſtice,
antlification,  1.  Cor,  1.30.  Againe,  But  yeare  waſoed,  ye  are  inſtified,  10
pory-arv
I.Cor.G  11,  Eecoodly,  theiollicewboredy  alinner
is  iuſtived,  is  revealed  withwet  the  law?  Rom,  3,21.  Now  inherent
ivice,or
the  babite  of  charitie,  isreucaled  by  the  law:  and the  o-  |
bedience
of  Chriſt,  is  the  oncly  iuſtice
withoue  thelaw,
*'
that  the  law  neuer  knew:  andinthiso-  35  ©
