---
page: 121
pdf_page: 143
sortable_pagination_id: "121"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chapi2;  129;
knowne  by  the  motions,and  operations  thereof.  The  firſt  where:
of,isa  Purpoſe  to  obey  God,accordiogto  all  bis  commandements
that  concerne  vs,  with  an  inclination  of  our  hearts  to  the  ſaid
commandements.  Paw!  [aith,be  was  ſold  under  fanne  :  and  yet  with-
allhe  addes,  that
he  dehbpbiedin  the  /aw  of  God  according  to  the  mward
mn;Rom.7.23,  Rethat
loves  God,  and  keepes  bis  commande-:
ments,hath
the  Father  and  the  Sonne  dwelling  in  him;/0b.14  23.
Letthis  be  obſcrued.  Pharaob,  when Gods  hand  was  vpon  him,
confeiled  he  was  a  (inner  and  his  people,and  requeſted  X7o/e:,  and
Aaron,tolet
the  plague  goe,  But  after  God  had  withdrawne  his-
Þ  þand,hereturaed
to  his  old  courſe.  The  like  doofichenea/t  thep
makepromiſe
to  amend  their  lives,  and  they  requelitheir
friends
topray  for  them  :  butwhen  they  are  recoucred,they  forget
all  their
faire  promiſes,  Thereaſon  is  this.  T  here  is  conſcience
in  them  z  and
vs  —=  they  know  themlelaesto  be  miſerable  (inners  :  but  they  want:
to  obey  God,  and  the  inclination  to  his  lawes  :  and-
therefore  indeede  they  bate'noe  their  ſinnes
but  rather  the  com-
mandements
of  God.  The  ſceond  operation,  &  fgne  of  the  Spirit,
is  a  mind  and  diſpoſition,  like  to  the  mind  and  diſpoſition  of
Chriſt:  which  is,to
doe  the  wilLof  God,to  ſeeke  his  glory,  andto
"  oppiy  antalts  to  the  good
of  menin  all  duties  of  love.
Thethird
andlaſt(to  omit  mary  )is  toloue  Chrilt  for  himfelfe,  and  toloue
them  that  love  Chrilt,and  that  becauſe  they  lone  Chriſt,  Thisis  a
true  ſigne;that  we  bave  paſſed  from  dearh  to  hfe,  1.106.3.14,  It  may
25  bere  be  ſaid,how  can  Chrilt  belaidto  livein  vs,con(idering  we  are
laden  with  afflitions  and  miſeries?  Where  Chriſt  lives,thereis  no
miſery.  A»{.In  the  mid(t  of  all  miſeries,the
life  of  Corilt  doth  molt
Whete  naturglllife  decayes,thereſpirituall  life  takes  place,
appexre.
2,Cor.  4.  10.  I  beare
in  my  bodie  the  mortification  of  our  Lord  Teſms,
that  the  life
of  eſis
may bee  made  manifet?  m  mee.  Gods  power  is  made
manifeft  in  weakneſſes  2.  Cor.  2.
Againe,  it  may  be  (aid,if  Chriſt  |
lived  in  vs,  wee  ſhould  not  feele  ſo  many  corruptions
as  wee  doe.
Anſwer.  T  helife
of  Chriſt  is  conveyed  voto  vs  by  littleand  little.
God  having  wounded  xd  ſlatzevs,  firlt  binder  vi  vp,  then  bee  rewines
wm  and  the  thied  day  he  raiſeth  vs  vp,Hoſe.6,1,  Againe,  nature  feeles
not  nature,norcorruption  feeles  corruption,
but  grace  :  therefore
itis  the  life  of  Chriſtin  vsthat  makes  vs  feele  the  maile  and  bodie
of  corruption.
Furthermore,  here  we  are  to  take  notice  of  the  common  ſinne
40  ofour  daies,  Men  will  not  ſuffer  Chriſt  to  live  in  them,  and  to  rule
over  then,  It  is  reputed  aſmall  matter;but  it  is  a  grieuousoffence.
The  Gentiles
ſay  ,Ler  uw  break  their  bandsr,and  caft  ;
vos  cord:  from  v3,
Pal.
