---
page: 122
pdf_page: 144
sortable_pagination_id: "122"
---
Chap.2+
A  Commentarie  -opott  -
130
7/al.2.2.  And
it  was  the  ſinne  of  the  lewes  to  fay;  We  will  not  hane
this  men  to
reigne
ener  v5,
19:44  And'therefore  Chriſt  Gith,
Laſtly,berewe  learne
our  duty  :  and  thatis,ſo  to  line,  that  we
may  be  able  toſay  with-good  conſcience,that  Chriſt  limes  in  vs;  we  5
mult  ſecke  his  kingdome  aboue  all  things,and  take  hisyokeon  vs,
It  will  be  ſaid,  what  muſt  wedoetbat  Chrilt  may  liuein  vs  ?  4y/#..
We  mall  vie  the  meanes
inted,
meditation  of  the  word,pray-
er,lacraments\:and
withall  we  malt  ſpiritually  ap
of  Chrifh,
and  drinke  bis  blood,[ob.6.,57.  And  that  we  may  cate  him,we  maſt  19
hauea  ſtomackein  our  ſoules  like  the  (tomacke
of  our
bodi
we  muſt  hungerand:  thieſt  after  Chriſt  :  and.  therefore  we  malt,
feele
our  owne  (innes,and
our
fpiritual
poucrty,and  have  an  ear.
neſtluſt  and
iteafter  Chrilt,as  after  meateand  drinke.  When
Siſers
was  purlued  by  the  army  ofthe  {raclites,be  cried  to  /ae/and  xo
ſaid,  Gree  ave  drinks,
dye  for  thiriZ,/ndg.4.19.  enen  ſo  we  being  pur-:
ſued  by  theſeatence  of  the  law,by  the  terrours  afhell,death,
aug,
condemnation  z  mult  fliyeta  the  throne  of  grace,and  cry
———_—_———
ing,Give  me  of  the  tree  of
lifeygine  me  of  the  water  of
life:  1  periſh
for  thirſt:
hen  ſhall  our  wretched  ſoules  be  quickacd,and  revived  to  euer-  10
laſting  life,  Marb.5.6,  Rewe.2  1.6.
la  the  fourthplace,  here
is  ſet  downe  the  Meanes  of  Spiritual
life,ia  theſe  wards,  Adox  that  I  now  line  in  the.  fleſp,4  lame
by  the  farth
of  the  Soune  of  God,  who  hath  loned  me  and  ginen  bimſelfe
for  me.  Andthat
the  doctrine  may the  better  appeare,l  will  (anda  while  to  (he  the  15
meaning  of  them.  By  fl:ſs,is  meant  the  mortall  body,or  the  frailg
condition  of  this  temporall  life,  Hcb.5.7.&  1.Per.q.2.And  therfore
to  ine  inthe  fleſs,  is
toliue  anaturall  life  by  cating,  drigking,  lleep-
ing.Further,Ps/  ſaith  that  living  inthe  fleſbyhe  lived  by  a
:  and
for  the  better  conceiuing
of  this,two  queſtioas  may  be
nded,
39
The  brit  is,  why  a  belecueris{aid  tolive  by  faith  ?  A»/.  There  be
two  cauſes.  Firlt,  faith  is  an  loftroment  toynite  vs  to  Chriſt  :  and
by  meanes
of  this  vnion,  we  receiue  life  from  Chriſt  :  for  Chiilt
dwells  in  our  hearts  by  faith,  Eph.  3.17,Secondly,  faith  is  a  Guide,
to  orderand  gouernetemporall  life,ia
all  good  manner  according  35
to  the  will  of  God.  And  this  faith  dotb,by  a  diuine  kind  of  reaſo-
ning  framed  in  the  mind,  whereby  it  yrgeth,  and  perlwadeth  [Ho]
good  duties,Row.6.11.
159
T  he  ſecond  queltion  is,  How  mes  live  by  faith?  Anſwer,  The
child  of  God  lives  a  double  life  in  this  world  :  a  Spiritual,  anda  &
Temporal.
T  he  Spiritual  (tands  ſpecially  in  three  things  ;  Recoaci-
liation  with  God,  :  renguation  of
lite  :  and  good  workes,  Now  in
our
