---
page: 101
pdf_page: 123
---
the  Epifile  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.2.
109
mouth
of  the  ſoule,  whereby  we  eatethe  fleſh  of  Chriſt,  and  dripke
his  blood.  /obw  17.8,
To  receiuethe  word  of
Chrift,toacknowledge
it,  andto  beleeuc  it;  areputall  for  one.  Paw!  faith,  that  the  Gentiles
did  apprehend  the  inflice  which  ic  by  fairh,  Rom,9.30,  Againe,  that
5  we  receine  the  promnſe  ofthe  ſpirit  by  fanth,Gal.  3.14.
T  his  apprehenſion  tands  in  tworthiogs.  The  firſt  is,  to  know
Chcilt,as  he  propounds  himſelte  in  thewordand  {acramenrs.  The
fecond  is,  Toapplie  him  and  his  benefits  vato  oorſelues.  This  ap-
plication  is  made  by  a  ſupernaturall  at  ofthe  vnder{tanding,when
10  we  beleeuethat  Chriſt  with  bis  benefits isreally  ours.  It  may  beob
ieced,  that  faith  is  a  certen  confidence  whereby.  wee  belecuein
Chritt;  &  ſoit  is  deſcribed
euen  in  this  text;  A,  [,Faich,and  con-
tidence,.  properly  are  diltiae  gifts  of  God  :  and  confidence  is
the  effec,  or  fruit
of  faith.
For  fant  faith;  that  were  bane  cntraxce
1  5  '0  God  with  confidente
by  faith,  Epheſians
3.1  1,  And  reatondeclares  as
much;  tor  aman  can not
dence  in  Chrilt,  ell  bee  be
allured  chat  Chriſt  with  bis  benetics
are  his.  We  doe  notrelt  on  his
goodneile,of
whole  lone  we  doube.Secondly,l  anſwer  that  conti-
dence,  beeing  a  molt  notable  etfeR  of  faith,is  often  in  {cripture,put
20
for  taith,and  faith  is
deſcribed  by  it(as  itis  in  this
)  and  yet
tor  nature  they  are  not  one,  but  mult  bee  diſtinguiſhed.
_  Furthermore,
the  grounds  of
ſion  mult  bee  conſide-
red.  For  {peciallfaith
,  mult  have  a  ſpeciall,  and  infallible  ground.
The  groundsare  three.  The  firlt  is  this.  In  the  Goſpel  God
59g.
th  propounded  generall  promiſes  of  remiſſion  of  (inves  ,and
life  everlaſting
by  Chriſt  :  and  withall  hee  hath  giuen  a  com-
mandement  toapply  the  fayd  promiſes  to  our  ſelues,  1.  ſobw3.
2  3.  T  bis  «  the  commandement
of  God  that  we  beleewe  in  the  name  of  bis
Some  lejus  Chriſt:  And  wee  cannot  beleeue  in  Chriſt,  till  wee
30
beleeve  Chriſt  to  bee  our  Chriſt,  Now  then,  a  generall  pro-
miſe,  with  a  commandement  to  applie  the  ſame  to  our  ſclues,
is  in  effet  as  much  as  a  ſpeciall  promiſe,  The  ſecond  ground
is  this.  Row,  8.16.7
he
ſpirit
of
God  teſhifieth  together  with  our  ſpryit  rho
we  are  the  ſonnes  of
God.  18  this  teltimony,  tourethings  mull  be  ob-
35
lerued.Thefirlt,thatit  isfufficicr  to  certifie  &  aſſure  vs  of  ourſalua
tion,  For  it  the  tellimony  of  twoor  three  witneſſes  eſtabliſh  atruth
among  mengthen  much  more  theteſtimony  of  God.
T  heſecond  is,
that  thistellimony  becertenly  known;els  it  is  no-ceftimony  vnto
vs.  I  hetbird  is,  thatthis  teſlimonisc  is  found  and  perceived  in  the
49  vieof  the  word  ;praier,  ſacraments.  Thelaſt  is;that  it  is  eſpecially
ven  and  felt  in  thetime  of
danger  and  afflition.  For  when
reaſon
of  miſery
and  trouble,
we  know  not  to  pray
as  we  _
H  4
en
