---
page: 102
pdf_page: 124
---
4  Commentarie
pon
110
Chap.
2-
for  vs  with  groanes  that  cannot  be  vitered:
ſþirit  wakes  requeſt
then  the
Ce  And  ioaffictions,  Paalfank  7helenrofGodi  ſhed  abroad
by  experience.
round
may  we  truly  con.
uc——_
clude  the  forgiueneſſe  ofour
theſaluation  ofour
fovles,  ,,  |
on  this  manner  :  He  which  belecuetb,hath
the  forgiuene(ſeofhis
ſinnes:  but  |  beleeuein  Chriſt  (Gith
be  which  beleeveth:)  there-
foremy  (innes  areforgiuen
me.  Theme  orfirltpatt;is
in  the  Word  nn
mg  tree
and  by  theteſtimony  of  the
tence,  which  isa  certen
Telli-  ;;
monie.  ForPasx/faith,  ———  the
toſtimenie
of  my  conſci-
exce,  2.Cor.1.42.  Andthe
stheconclulion  of  ſpecial
faith,  Ifthis  benota  good  andfufficient  ground
,  there  is  almoll
no  ſpeciall  faithin  the  world.
Laſtly,
wee  aretocon(ider  the
of  Apprebenfion,  and  1,
they  are  two:  there  is  a  weaks
,  and  thereis  a  fr  ong  appre-
OY
henfion,as  there  is  a  weake  anda  (trong  faith,  The  weake  faith,  and
is,  when  we  eadeauour  to  apprehend.  This  endea-
gour  is;when  we  bewaile
our  vabeleefe,  (trive  again(t  our  manifold  .
doubtings,  will  to  beleeve  withan bonelt  heart,delirero  be  recon-  ,,
ciledto  Godaand  conltantly  viethe  good  meanes  to  beleeue.  For
God  w—__  thewill  ——  >  7  _—  and  the  "a
to  res
repentance.  I  he
isplaine,  E
pernatu-
Ht  a  preſuppoleth  a  ſupernaturall  power,
or  gift  wt  +  therefore
_  -
the  willto  belecue  and  repent  ,  preſuppoſeth  the  power  and  gift
of  ,,
faith,andrepentance  in  the  heart.  Ir  may  be  obieed,  that  in  the
mindes  of  them  that  belecue  in  this  manner,  doubtings  of  Gods
mercies  abound,  A»ſw,  Though  doubtings  abound  never  fo,  yet
are  they  not  of  the  nature  of  faith,  but  are  contrarieto  it,  Second-
iy,  we  mult  put  difference  betweene  true  apprebenſion,  and  ſtrong
15
OR,
hs  ALL
"Pwr
Det
Da
Wh"
a.
appreben(ion.  Itwe  truly  apprehend,  though  oot  ſtrongly,
it
fut-
bceth,  Thepallic-hand  js  ableto  receiuea  gift,  though  not  fo
ſtrongly  wt
other.  The  man  in  -_
laid,  Lord,  /  _
pe  mune
nbeleeſe.
9.  24.  that  is,  hel
faith  which  b
reaſon  of  the  Cianſe  hot  may  rather  ha
called  vabeleefe,  4  |
then  faith.  This  is  the  common  faith  of  true  belecuers.  For  ia  his
world,  wee  rather  live  by  buogring
and  thirſting  ,  then
by  full
—_
appre-
ws.
