---
page: 103
pdf_page: 125
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.
apprebending  of  Chriſt:  and  our  comfort  (tands  rather  inthie,
that  weareknowne  ofGod,then  that  weknow  God.
The  higheſt
of  faithis,  afullperſwaſion
of  Gods  mercy.
Thos  faithebe
Gholt,that  Abraham
was  not  weake  through
vn-
Se  Fly  fades,
cher
Cad,ahbthetyrnſdmendT
oj
ry  that  be  was
it,  Tha
metre  uh  ianotincento  al
blo
burto  the  Prophets,
martyrs
as  have  bin  long
OR
OO”
HP
mncrcifed  inciebchooloef  Chrilt,  Andthicppaares  s  by  the  order,
EE
—__
10  whereby  we  attaineto  this
degree
of  faith,  Firſt,  theremuſt
bee  a
tie
mercie,
/vr—__  pardonable.  An
mbeatrobetetdegers,
gall  childe,
Zap  15.  18,  Aﬀeer  this  che  holy  Ghoſt  worketha  will
15  and  CSNIIEY  the  heartto  make  humble  andferi-
ousinuocation
for  pardon.
After
inftantly  quaſei  tfullowes
it.
Ate
LED
ar
aſetling  andquieting
7G  1%
of
Aram  nrs  >
the  promiſe,
eto  deeper  ol  fe,
ake,ze  ſhall  re
wh
Math.7.7.
expericnce'in  manifold  obſeruati-
ceixe.  Aﬀeer  all  this  followes
an
20  ons  ofthe  mercies  of  God,  andloucia  Chrift:  and  after
ence,followes
afull  perſwaſion.  1brabam
had  notthivfol
faith,  Pſalwv.2  3,6,  Doubrieſſe  krdeſſe
215  daies  of  my  life,
1095:
,11
153  1  whlor
This  dilli  inRionof  _
of  _  O—
ſerued  ,
becauſe
the  Papilts  ſuppoſe  that  weteach,
thiteuery
is  a  foll  perſwaſion  ,  andthat  every  one  among  vs  Hatioths  aper-
ſwaſion,.  Which  isotherwiſe.For,  certentiewe-aſcnbe
toall  faith,
30  but  not  fulneſſe
of  certenty.  Neither  doewe:  teach  ,  that  all  men-
muſt  have  a  full
waſion,at  the  fir(t,  nw  9:7
vigqebas  bi.
Thevſe.-  Ife  nie  anna
riſtvoto  vs,  thed  is  it  's
iſt,  ro de  baptized,  and,wit
CIR
35  whenitis  not  knowne  whar  the  Church  belewwes,  {>  11:  .
Ofthe  fame  kinde  is  the  fairh  ofthodritidelcamonguagdele
faith  wa  greeting)  that  iv  ,  their  tidelitiez  and  truthia
their  dealioge.
St;en
"17  30104  21  21117  bois  :  998792
?\gz2  03
Laftly,  ifehat  de  faith  whichwoly
|  there
is
49  ng  wn  eo  1s  wen
mo  of  Chrilt
apprehen
by
,yet  ignot  theethicacie
death  <  an1
that  appeares
by  the  badde  and  vareformed  liges  —
