---
page: 105
pdf_page: 127
---
the  Epiſtle
tothe  Gatatians.
Chapea)
183.
Thela(l  point  is;that  faith  alone  iultiberh.  Forhere
Pau/  faiths
that  we  are  inſtified  by  faith,  without  the  works:  of  the  law:  and  thatis
as  much  as  if  he  had  ſaid,by  faith  a/one.  Some  Papilts  to  belpe  them-
ſelues  tranſlatethewords  of  P  a«/thus,K  nowng
that  a  man  toner  inſti
5  fiedby  the  worker
of  the  law,  [lar  43]  if  nor  byfaib,thatis,  except  faith
withall  :  thenif  faith  be  ioyned  with  workes,  (ſaythey)works
iuſtive.  1  anſwer,  that  this  mannerof  tranſlation  corrupteth  the:
be  tran(lated,  6-7  2  as  appeares  by  the.
text.  For  [i«r  43]  muſt  here
words  following,  We  bawe  belcened  m  Chriſt,  that  we  might  be  iuſtificd
10  byfaith  in  Chriſt  without
the  workerof  the  law.  We  cannot  doemorein
the  er  ow  ſpiritualidiſeaſes,thenia  thecuring  oftbediſeaſes
of  our
bodie\:of  which  Chriſt  ſaith,Oncy  belrene,  Mark.  5.36,  When
Abrabamabounded  both  in  faith  and  works,  Row,  4.  itis  (aid,  that
be  was  inftified
by  faith  without  worker.
15
Thisdoftringisof  great  vie.  'Firlt,  welearne  hence,  thata  man
is  iuſtified  by  the  meere  mercie  of  God  :  and  that  there  is  excluded
from  iuſtitication.,  all  Merit  of  coogruitie,  all  meritorious  workes
ofpreparation,  wrought  by  vs,  all  Cooperation  of  mans  will  with
Godsgrace  in  the  etfeRing  of  our  iullification,
--.
20
Secondly,welearne,that  aman  is  iuſtified
by  themeere  merit  of
Chriſt:  —_  by  ary  ranma.  Ne
in  himſelfe,  and  not
by  any  thing  wrought  by  hum  inys.  Her
our  merits,and(atisfations,andallinwardiattice,ivexclade&from
the  juſtification  ofa  finner.  m-
thisend  Pas/  faith,  —
25
fified
there
ion  thats  im  Clrift,  Row.  $24.
weare
TEE
x  orys  er  notinvs:)2,Cor;s  2  1,  that  Hay
bimſelfe
to  debiner  vi,  Gal.  1.)  4.  that
be  bath  prred  awr  ſame:
by
ſelfey  Heb.  1.34.and  not  by  anythibginvs.
it  appeares;that
the  Papiltserre,  and  are  ;
rx  d,  whenthey  teachthat  Chrilt  did
30  merit,  that  we  might  merit,  andiatisfic  for  our  ſelyes:  forthen
ſhould  not  beiuſtifted  dy  our  faith
alone,
Glo
\.  Thirdly,hence  welearnetthat  a  Ganer  is  iuſtified  by  meere  faith?
that  is,  that  nothing  within  vs  concurresas  a  cauſeof  our  juſtifics-
tion,but  faith;  andthat  nothing  a
ds  Chrids  obedience  for
35  our  iuſtification,
but  faith.  T  his  will  morecalily  appearejifwe  com-
pare  faith,  bop2,and  love.  Faitb  is  like
an  hand;that  opeos  it  ſelfeto
receiueagitt,andſois  neither  loue,nor
is  alſdan  hand;
but  yet  an  hand  that  gives  out,communicates,and  diltributes.,For
as  faith  receives  Chrilt  ioto  our  hearts  ,  ſor  loue  opens  the  heart,
40  andpowres  out  praiſeand  thankesto  God,and  all  maner  of
neſſetomen.  Hope
is  no  handybut  an  cye  that  wiſhly  looketh  and
waiteth  tor  thegood  things  which  taich  belecuceh.  T  beretore  ic  -
W;
