---
page: 129
pdf_page: 151
sortable_pagination_id: "129"
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.  3.
deſired  nothing  inthis
ſpeech,  but  their  good  and  amendmene,
Vponlike  grounds  /  rhe  [ſraclites,
P  eople  of  Sodomue
and  G  o-
morhs,  1/a,  1.  Chril)  calsthe
two  diſciples,  foolſb,  and  flow
of  heart
tobeleene,  Luk,  24.25.  Panicals  the  En  and  ſlow  bellies,Tit.
5  1.12,  But  Mar.5.22.may  be  obieRted,where  beis  faid  to  be  in  dan-
of  a  Councel;that  faith,7ho»  foole.  Auſ.Theplaceistobevnder-
flood  ofthem  thatchargemen  with  folly,with  a  miade  to
them,and  in  way  ofreucnge:  which  Pas/in  this  place  doth  not.
The  third  queſtion  is,  whether  wee  may  vie  like  judgement  a-
t0gain{  men?  As/.Vpon  like  grounds  wemay,ifwe  baue  a  warrant,
andcalling
from  God  foto  do.  For  allþdgement  is  Gods,  Kom.  14.
10.ifthi«  iudgement  bein  truth  :  ifitbe  in  charitie,
for  the  amicnd-
ment  of  the  parties,and  for the  good  of  others.  Otherwiſe,  iftheſe
grounds  faile  vs,  we  may  notgiuve  iadgement  againſt  any  man,but
15  mult  follow  the  iudgementof  charitiewhich  thinksnoeuill,  hopes
the  beſt,and  cooſtracs  all  things  in  the  beſt  part.  r.Cor.r3.
Tocome  tothe  ſecond  cauſe,P<*/  faith,
ho  bath  bewnched  you?
thatis,who  bath  deceived  you,as  ifye  were  bewitched  by  ſomein-
chantments.  Here  P«-/  takes  it  fora  confelled  truth,  thatthereis
210  witchcraft,
and  witches.  And  that
we  may  the  better  conceiue  his
meaning  »  two  queſtions  areto  be  propounded,  The  firſt  is,  what
is  the  witchcraft  here  meant  ?  Auſw.  It  is  a  Satanicall  operation,
whereby  the  ſenſes  of  men  aredeluded.  Forthe  divell  can  by  cer-
tainemeanes,  deludeand  corrupt  the
ie,  or  the  imaginati-
25  0n;  andcauſemento  thinkethatoft
,  which  is  other-
wile.
T  hereis  a  diſcaſe  called  Lycentbropia,in  which,the  braine  bee-
ing  diſtempered,  men  thinke  themſelues
to  be  wolves,  and  carrie
themſelues  as  wolves,  And  inthisdiſeaſethe  divell  hath  a  great
ſtroke.  Againe,  the  divell  can  delude
the  outward  ſenſes,
as  the
30  hearivg,andtheſight.  Thus  lawner  and  [embres  turned  their  rods
intoſerpents  ,-
Pharaoh,  and
ht
frogges,  by  deceivin
theeye,and  not  in  truth,  Exod  7.  and
8.
Thus  the  witch  0
mates
a  counterfeit  'of  Same!
to  riſe  out  of  the  earth  ,
x.  Saw.
2s,
35
Theſecondqueſtion  is,  if  this  witchcraft  bee  an
tion  of
Satan  ,  how  men  ſhould  be  {aid  todoeit  ?  for  Pew
faith,  who,  or
what  man  hath  bewitched  you?  An{.  Men  doit  by  league,and  con-
federacie  withthedigel.  The  inchanter  charmes  Arr  (97a
Pſal.58.5,
The  divell  ſcekes  whom  be  may  devoure\:andt
rey
40  where  he  finds  a  fit  perſon  to  worke  vpon,  he  infinuatesand  offers
himſelfe.  And  after
men  be  in
league  with  him  ;  be  hath  a  word
andfacramentsfor
them  ,  as  God  I  and
be  requireth  _—_
