---
page: 13
pdf_page: 35
sortable_pagination_id: "13"
---
the  Epiſtle  tothe  Galatians.
Chap.r.
aines  fothe  Church  vpon  earth,which  pronounceth  them  ac-
ſed,  whom  God  necurlork,  It  may  bee  faid,  how  tomes  the
Church  to  know  the  iudgerent
of  God,  whereby  hee  accurſeth  ?
Anſwer,  T  he  word  ſets  downe  thecondition  of  them,  that  are  ac-
5  curſed;and  experience,antobſcruation  findesout  the  perſons,  to
whom  theſe  conditioasate  incident.  Thethird1udge
isgiuen
in  heauen,  whereby  God  zatifiesandapprovues  the  ig
of  :
the  Church,  according  to  that,  harſorneryer  bids  in  earth,  hall  bee
bound  m  beanen.  T  he  laſt  indgement  pertgines  to  every  private
10  perſon,  who  holds  himin  execration,  whom  Gad  hath  accurled,
and  the  Church  hath  pronouncedo  tobe.  'if  hee  heare  not  the
Church,  the  Church  pronouncethbhim'to-
bee  ava[Publican  and
heathen  :  «fſcben((aith  Chrift  )ier  timber  ava  £  Ele  to
thee,  Thus
muſtthetext
be  vnderſlood.  ©  77
it
15
Hencewearetaught,to  becarcfoll  in  preſervibg  the  puritie  of
the  —_  becauſe  thecorruprerstherof,ure  tobe  accuriedas  the
damned  fpirits.
Hence  againeit  appeareth,  thar  the  Churehio  ac+
curſiog,doth  but  exercile  a  Miniltery,whichis;topublſhand  teſti-
fie;who  areaccurſed  of  God.  Laſtly,  bence  welearns,  that  private
20  perſons  mul}  ſeldomevſecurling
;  becauſe
God  mult  firlt  accurſe,
and  the  Churchpublyb  theſenemneeof  od;  before
we  may  with
good  conſcience  vtterthe  lame.  T  hey  theretore  which'iw  a  rage
accurſethemſcluesand  others,deale  wickedly,  We
arecalled  ordi-
narily  to  bleſſing,and  nostocuriing.
25
Thethird  pointisabe  fuppolitioh  of  chingsimpollible,on  this
manner.  Put  the.caſc,  that  +  Pagl;
op  afiy  other
of  the  Apollles,
ſhould  teach  otherwiſe  ther  Hhau@ggughtyou  :  neither  |  nor  they
mult  bee  beleeved,\bur
be  accurſed;  Againe,  put  the  gale,  that  an
Angelfromheauenthoaldcome  and  preach,  otherwiſethen  P.u/
30  preachedto  the  Galatians,  who!  mult  bee  beleeued  #'Paxl,  or  the
Angel?  theanſweris,notthe  Angel,  but  Pax/ratid  theAngel  malt
beaccurked.:'  Andthereaſon  is,becauſe  Pawinpreathing
and  wg
ting,didrepreſebr  the  authoritie  of  God,  ard  God  pats  hisbune
authoritieibtothe  word  which  he  vttered  :-and  he  wag  allifted  by
>5  theextraordinary,  immediate.and1nfalliblea{liftance  of  Gods(pi-  -
rit,  From  this  ſuppoſition,ſundry  things  may  bee  learned,  The
hr(l,;hatthe  word  preached  and  written  by  Pax/\:is  as  tertainegas  if
it  had  been  written  by  God  himlelteymmediatly.  1t  may  beeob-
ieced,  that  Paw!  {aith,z,Cor,p.12,  Te  therrevenints  I  ſpeahr,
not  the  *
49  Lord,  |  an{wer,Paul  faith,  /,not  the  Lord;jnot  becaule  he  was  decet.'  *
Þ..  ved  in  his  aduile,  for  hee  ſpake  by  the  Spirit  of  God,c:  7\:v.4o.  but
e  bee  gaue  counlell  ina  calcat  mariage,  whereof'the  =_
