---
page: 111
pdf_page: 133
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.2.
119
dominion  of  thelaw.  And  we  are  free,  i"  foure  reſpetts.  Firſt,;in  re-
ſpe  of  theacculing,
atid  damnatorie  ſentence  of  the  law,  Row.
$.1.  Secondly;in  —_  the  power  of  thelaw,  whereby  asan
occaſion  it  prouoketh
and  ſtirreth  vpthe  corruptionof  the  heart
inthe  vnregenerate,Rom.
7.8.  Thirdly,  ioreſpet  of  the  rigor  ofthe
law;  whereby  it  exaQeth  moltperfeR  obedicocefor  our  iuſtifica-
tion  Thos  Pa!  here  ſaith,that  hee  is  Lead  to  the  law.  Laſtly,  in  re-
ſpeR  ofthe  obligation  of  the  conſcience,tothe  obſeruation  of  ce-
remonies,Cel.2.20,  Thug  are  all  perſons  iuſtified  by  the  faith  of
10  Chriſt,freefrom  the  law.
Hence
wee  learne,  that  the  Papiltserre  and  are  deceiued,when
they  teach;thatthe  Law  ard  the  Goſpel  are  one  for  ſubſtance  of
doRtine.  'Forthen  they  which  are  ioſtified  by  Chriſt,ſhoold  not
only  be  dead  tothe  law,but
alſo  tothe  Goſpel,  Now  the  Scripture
15  faith  not,  that  perſons  juſtified  aredead  tothe  Goſ
They  erre  againe,
in  that  they
teach,  that  perſons  iuſtified  by
the  merit
of  the  death  of  Chriſt,  are  further
to  bee  iultified  by  the
workes  of  the  law,  For  he  that  isiuſtified  by  the  law,is  dead  to  the
law:  but  if  wee  be  juſtified  by  works,theo  arewe  by  Chriſt  made
20  alivetothe  law.
Thirdly  ,  heere  wee  fee  how  long  the  dominion  of  the  law
continueth,  and  when  ic  endeth.  The  law  reignes  ouer  all  men
without  exception,  till  they
bee  juſtified,  When  they  once  be-
ginne  to  belecue  in  Chriſt,  and  to  amend  their  lives  ,  then  the
25  dominiori  of  the  law  cea(ſeth  ,  and  they  then  are  no  more  vnder
the  law,but  vndergrace.  Here  all  ſuch  perſons  as  live  in  the  ſecu-
ritie  and  hardnefſeof  their  hearts,arc  to  be  admoniſhed  to  repent
of  their  (innes,  and  to  begin  to  turnevato  God.  For  they  mult
know,  that  they  line  vnder  a  moſt  bard  avd  cruell  maſter,  that
30  will  doe  nothing  but  accuſe,  terrifie,and  condemne  them  ,  and
to  runne  headlong  tovtter  deſperation.  Andif  they
Tiebeing  vnder  the  law,  they  mult  looke  for  nothing  but  death
and  deſlryuQion  without  mercie.  For  the  law  is  mercileſſe.  T
bis
conſideration  ſerveth  notably  to  awake  them  that  are  dead  in
25  their  finnes.  Againe,all  ſuch  as  withtrue  and  honelt  hearts  have
begunto  repent  and  beleeue,let  them  bee  of  good  comfort.  For
they  are  not  vnder  the  dominion
of  the  law;  but  they  aredeadeo
the  law,and  vndergrace,baving  «  Lotd  ,  who  is  alſo  their  merci-
foll  Saviour,
who  willgjue  them  pracetion  againſt  the  terrourvof
40  thelaw,and  ſpare
them  as  a  father  ſpares  his  child  that  ſerues  him,
and  orkreckio  them,  though  they  bee  but  as  weakeand  bruiſed
reeds,and
as  {moaking  flaxe.
of
