---
page: 113
pdf_page: 135
---
the  Epiſtle
ts  the  Galatians.
Chap.2.
121
parece  honey  welivetoGod  ?  eLHeſwer,  Thereis  anaturall
and  apirituall  life.  Naturall  life  is  that  which  weereceivefrom
Adan  bygeneration  :  and  it  is  the  fonion  of  naturall  faculties,
in  liviog,mooving;
vic  of  ſenſes  and  reaſon,  Spiritualllife  is
that
g3  Whichwereceivetrom
Chriſt
by  regeneration\:and  it  is
the  ation,
motion,or
oftheSpiritin  vs.  Thislife
is  called  by  Paw
the  life
of
GodgEpbeſ.4.18.  And  this  is  thelife  which  he  ſpeakes  ofin
this  place.  And  it  is  deſcribed
by  many  things.  Firlt,by  theendand
-_
ofit.  Ren  vs  _  to  God,that  is;tothe  honour
glory  of  G
we  liveto  God  by  liuing  w/ch,godly,gnftly,
_  T#:3.42,
reſpeR
of  our  ſelues  ;  th  nel  cd
God:
fin
ofmen.
hat  we  naay  live  wiſely,  we  muſt  obſerue  tworules.  The  firſt  :
Mr  ay  nt
ye  with  all  ſpced,  that  we-may
T5  be  worthy  toſtand  before  the  Sonne  ofman  at  hiscomming.
And
thereforewee  muſfHabourto  bee
in  Chriſt,  having
true  faith  and
good  conſcience,  Epb.s.  1  5.Lake  21.36.  Conſideralſo
the  example
of  Paw,  AR.14.16.  Itis  truewiſdome  to  be  wiſe  for  our  ſoules,and
for  excrlafti
ineſſe
:  and  it  was  thefolly
of  the  fooliſhvir-
26  $ins\:that
id
not  furniſh  themſelues
with  the  oyleof  grace
ia
time  convenient.  The  ſecond
rule  :  we  mult  in  this  world  come  as
mecreheauen
and the  happ
life  everlaſting,as
may
be,P/al.
3.14.  Andforthis
cauſe  we  mult  ioyne  our  ſelues  co  the
al
ies
where  the  word  is  preached;prayeris  made,and  Sacraments  admi-
24  viſtred:  forthereis  the  gateof  heaven.  Conſider  the
praQtiſe  of
Moſes  yHeb.1  1.2  5,26.  and  of  David,Pſal  $4.10.  Againe,being  ab-
ſent  from  heaven  both  in  body  and  ſoule  ,  yet  wee  muſt  haveour
converſation  there,by  the  cogitation
ofour  minds,and  by  the  affe-
he  rent  >
'p
nas
dy
--
That
wee  maytive
ily,
ſeen  rules  ra
remembred.
30  The  firſt  :  wee  mult  bing  oo  ſelues  into  the
preſence  of  the
iouifible
God  :  yea,  we  muſter
our
thoughts,  willes,
affeions,
andallwe
doe  in  bis  (ight  and  preſence:
and wee  mult  evermore
remember  whatſoener  weedoe,  that  wee  have  to  deale
with  God
5  himſelfe.  Io  this
regard  Enoch
is  ſaid  ro  walke  with  GodGener5.24.
AbrabanL  and  Iſane  befor  God,  Greſ.  17.1,  and  48.15.  and  Daxid,
Pſubm116:9.  and  1  39.  all,  aud  Cornehus,  After  30.3  3,  and  Pant,
5Cyl.
Wh
LET
Theſecond  :  wemuſttike  knowledgeofthe  will
of  God  is  all
40  things,whetherit  be  revealed  in  the  word,
or  'by  any  event.  It  is
notenoughto  know  Gods  will,  bur  when  time  and  place  ſerues,we
anultacknowledgeit,Row.  12.2,C0/.1.10.
1  2
The
