---
page: 136
pdf_page: 158
sortable_pagination_id: "136"
---
144
Chap.  3+
A  Commentarie
pom
and  fe  ſignifies  outward
ings,
or  actions,  thatproperly  pertaineto  the  outward.man  ,  ag
circumciſion,andſuch
like.  Thusz.Cor.5.17.  fle,andthe  newores-
ev  wr.  «1  wr
6s  alone
thin,snthe
ſpirit  fanning
the  circumei/s
/iom  of  the  heart.  To  begin  twthe  (þi
res  to!  bo  in  codlines  and  religion,iawardly  in  the  Mercola
therenewed  heart
The  Reſolution.
[ntheſe  words,is  contained  the  firſt  argurvent,
whereby  Pa«/prooues
the  truth  of  his  doarine.  It  is  framed  thus:
If  ye  received  the
ſpirit  by  my  doQtrine,my
doQrine  istruc,and  ye  1,
fooliſh  that  adde  vnto  it,iullification  by  the  workes  of  the  law:  but
yereceivedtheſpirit
by my  doctrine:  therefore  it  is  true,  andye
deale  fooliſhly
that  have  added  toit  iuſtification
by  workes.
The  maior  or  eo
rs  is  notexpreſſed,  butthe  proofe
thereof  inthe  third
thus:  it  is  a  point  ofextreamefollie  when  is
ye  have  begun  inthe
ſpirit,to
endin  the  fleſh\:thereforeit  isfollyia
you  having  received  the  ſpirit  by my  doctrine  ,  to  addeany  thing
Owne.
The  vie.  When  Pax!  faith,  Let  me  learne  one  thing  of  you,
he  notes
the  fault  ofthe  Galatians,  and  of  ſundrie  others,  who  whea  they  10
ona  warn  es  07
dgein  Gods  —
arepreſently  puffed  v
pride,and
ethemſclues
fircbeather  racher  Thieuethefanlofehe  Coriathians,z.Cer,
8.10,  andof  ſundry  inourdaies,
who
wholly
from  allour
congregations,  Joey  to  know  that  which  they  never  lear-45
ned  of  their
Thatthis  ouerweening
pride  may pot  take
bans  ioyne  the  knowledge
of  our  felues,  with
the  know-
word,  and  mixeour  knowledge
with  loue.  For  lwe
and  bare
gaine,here  when  rr  gens}
that  is,ye  did
Agai
is
ſaid,  Reces
the
(pirit  ?
40
not  receive
theſpiri  a  ms  a  ye
of  faith,
we  ſee  the  difference
betweene  the  law,
the  Goſpel.  The  law
not  miniſter
the
ſpirit  voto
vs  :  for  it
OE
ET"
Leh
ted
it
root
"Oe
onely  ſhewes  our
xines  VS  00  remedie,
T  be  Goſpel
i-
itreththe
ſpirit.  Forit
what  we  are  to  doe:  and  withall  35
con  is  giuen,  tomake  vsdoetbat  which  we  are  inioyned
in
Herealſo  welearne,thatthe
ing  of  the  Goſpel,  is  necella-
ric  forallmen,  becauſeit
is  the  laNrument
of  God  to  conferrethe
ſpirit.
bile  Peter  was  yet
ſpeaking,
the  ſpirit
of  God  fell  vpon  the  Gemiler,
AR.  10.  44.P  aulfaith,bic
winiſterie
is
theminiſterie
of  the  ſpirit  2.Cor.
4.  35,  And  themolt
4-5.ſavingthe  Miniſters  and  others,  1,75,
