---
page: 115
pdf_page: 137
---
the  EpitHe  tothe  Galatians,
Chap.2.
when  bodie  and  ſoule  reunited,  enter  into  the  preſenceof  God.
Thereforethat  we  may  be  ſaued,  wee  muitlive  vato  God'in  this
life:  for  we  can  never  cometotheſecond  degree  of  life,  but  by  the
firſt.  And  wee  mult  not  imagine,  that  wecan  ſtep  immediatly  ouc
5s  ofa  lewd  andwicked  life,  into  everlaſting  happineiſein  heaven.
Laſtly,thegraceof  God  in  theminiſtery  ottheGolpel  hath  appea-
red  and  long  taught  vs,  and  called  vponvstolivevntoGod,  Ther-.
fore  vnleſſe  we  beaſhamed  and  contounded  for  our  linnes,and  be-
gin  with  all  ſpeedto  live  vnto  (30d,  it  will  bee  worle  with  vs,  then
to  with  Sodem  and  Gomorrha;and  many  other  aatious,
20  1amcruified
with  Chrift  :  Thus  1  line_>;
yet not  1  any
more,but  Chriſt  liues  in  mee.  And  in  that  1  now  line  in  the  fleſb,
I5  1  luc  by  the  faith  of  the  Sowne  of  God,  who  hith  loued  mee,  and
ginen  bumſelfe
for  mee.
Whereas  Þ«w/  (aid  before,  [4m  4eadro  the  kiw;  heerg  he  declares
thereaſon  of  it,  when  heeſaith,  /  em  grucified  with  Chrift,  Againe,
here  Pau!  ſets  downe  the  true  preparation  to  ſpiritualllite.  For  God
26  fielt  kils,and  then  he  makesaliue.  And  the  meaſure  of  ſpiritual  life,
is  according  to  the  decay:
of.  ociginall-ſfinne.  This  preparation
ſtands  in  two  things;  the  felt  is,  fellowſhip  with  Chrilt  ig  bis
crolle  and  paflion,in  theſe  wordes,  1  aw  crucified  n3th  Chrii?,  The
ſecond  is  Abnegation,  or  Aagibhilation  (asſome  callit)ia  theſe
25  words,  Not  /  any  more.
1  am  crucified  with  Chriſt.
Forthe  bettervnder(tandingof  theſe  words,  we  mult  obſerue,
firſt,  that  Paw/ſpeakes  not  this  of  himfelte  particularly,  but  be
20  ſpeakes  in  the  perſon
of  the  Chriſtian  lewes,befare  whom  he  now
reaſoneth  with  Petey\:nay  io  theperſon  ofall  belecuers,  For  all  that
belecuec  are  buried  into  bis  death,  Rom.  4.  Secondly,  it  mult
beobſerued,  that  Paw  ſpeaketh  of  himſelte  notras
be  is  a  man
conliſting  of  body  and  foule,butas  he  is  a  finnercarryingabout
35  him  the  body  of  linne,  Rqgp.6.v.5.  Further  it  may  be  demanded,
vpon  what  ground  he  ſhould  ſay,  [am  crucified  with  Chriſt?  An,
T  here
be  two-reaſons  of  this  ſpeach,  Ooe  is;thatC  hrilt  ypon
thecroſle,  ſtood  not
as  a-priuate  perſon,  but  as  apublicke  per-
ſon,  inthe  roome,  place,and  ſtead
of  all\:the  Ele  :  and  theretore
40  when
be  was  crucified,
all  belecuers  were  crucified  ia  himzas  in  the
Parlamenrt,when  the  Burgeiſegiues
his  voice,the  wholecorporati-
onis  idro.conſent  by  him,and  in  him.
T  he  2.ceaſon  isthis.  lo  che
I  3
CUnucr-
