---
page: 116
pdf_page: 138
---
124
Chap.2.
A  Commentarie
08
converlion  of  a  finner,therejs  arealldonation  of  Chriſt,  and  all
his  benefits  voto  vs:  and  there  is  a  reall  vnion,  whereby
beleever  is  made  one  with  Chriſt,  And  by  yertue  of  this  vnion,
thecrotſe  and  paſſion  of  Chriltis  as  verily  made  ours,  as  if  wehad
bin  crucified  in  our  owne  perſons.  Hereupor  Paw  faith  in  thetime  5
t,  /  am  crucified
with  Chrift,  T
here  ate  like  phraſes  ind  Pani;
Wee  are  dead  with  Chrift  :
we  are  riſen  with  bim:  we  fit  with  him  in  bea-
wenly  places,  Epheſ.2.6,  Col.3,1.  and  they  arein  the  ſame  mannerto
be  expounded.  Moreouerthe  benefits
that  ariſe  ofthis  communi.
on  with  Chrilt  in  his
paſſion,are  two.  One  is,  /»/tsfication  from  all  19
our  ſinnes,Rem.6.7.  T  he  ſecond  is,  fortification  of  (inne  by  the
vertue  of  the  deathof  Chrilt,after  we  areipgrafted
iato  bim.  T  hus
much  oftbe  meaning.
as
bak  91
The  vc.  Superltitious  perſons  take  occaſion  by.  the  paſſion
on,  and  15:
of  Chriſt,  to  ſture  vp  themſelves  to  ſorrow  ,  c:
teares,  by  conlidering  the  pitifull  b
of  Chriſt,
the  for-
row  that  pearvecthe  heart  of
the  Virgin  Oe,  and  the  cruckic
edgy,  But  this  isa  humane
vice,  that  may
be  madeof  every
orie.
end  WILLIE
Theripht
vſe  is  this  :  wee  areinmindeand  meditation  to  con-  29:
ihed
for
vs.
is
mne,wee
multgoe
er,and  as  it
were
ſpread  ourſelves  on  thecrofſe  ofAChrif},  beleeuing  and  with-
all
ing
ourſeclues  crucified  with  him,  Thou  wilt  ſay,thisis
a  hard  matter!  cannot  doe  it.  I  fay  againe,  thisjs
the
right  pra-  25
Aiſc
of  faith  :  ſtrive  therefore
to  bee  ſetled  inthis,that
the  body  of
thy  ſiois  crucified  with  Chriſt,  Pray  wm  &+
hon.  =  7
knocking,that
thou  mailtthus  belecue.  This
faith
and  perſwalion
is  ofendleſle
ve.  Firltie  isthe
foundation
of  thy  comfort.  If  thou
beleevethy
(clfeto  be  crucified  with  Chriſt,
thou  ſhalt  ſeetbyſelfe  49.
freed  from  the  dominion
of  the  law  and  finne,  from  bell,  deatb,
andcondernnation
;  and
tothy
great  comfort  ſhale  ſee  thy  ſelfe
totriumph  ouerallthy  ſpiritual  enemicy,  For  this  Chriſt  doetb,
{*/.2.  14.  and  thou  doſt  the  ſame;if  thou  beſetled
in  this,that  thou
art  crucified  with  him,  Secondly,  vpoggbis  perſwaſion,
thou  ſhalt  35
feele  the  vertue  ofthedeath  of
Chriſt  to  kill  Gonein  thee,  and  10
_  thy
dead  foule  m  iritualllife,
When  the  Shnnamne;  child  was
;  Elifha  went
ingtace
to  face
to
band,  foot  to  foot  :  and  bis  Bees  nn  16  war
1,  King.  4.  34.  even  ſo  apply  thy  ſelfe  toChriſtcrocified,
hand  to  49
hand,  foot  to  foot,  heart  to  hearty  and  thou  ſhalt  feele  in  thy  ſelfe
a  dcath  of  inne,andthe
heat  of  ſpiritual  lifeto  warme  +
y.
