---
page: 14
pdf_page: 14
---
SS
+.
A  Commentarie  pou
ſcth  himſelfeto  the  falſe  Apoſtles,  who  were  called  not  by
God,
Toe  by  men,  Againe  he  ſaith[vt  by  mas]  that  is,  not  called  of  God
in  and  by  theminiſtery
of  any  meereman.  Andin  this  Pau!  oppo-
ſeth  himſelfe  toall
ordinary
miniſters  of  the  Goſpel  whatſocuer,
who  arecalled  of  God  by  man.  This  done,be  propounds  the  true  5
cauſe  and  authorof  his  Apoſtleſhip,of  whome  was  called  imme-
diatly.  Again(t  thisit  may  bee  obieRed,  that  Paw!  was  ordained  to
bean  Apolile  by  the  impoſition  of  handsofthe  Church  of  Anti-
och,  |  anſwer,that  thisimpoſition  was  rather  a  confirmation  then
acalling.  Secondly,they  of  Antioch  had  not  impoſed  handes  on  ,  ,
Paxl;but  that  they  werecommanded  by  the  ſpirit  of  God,  Further
Pax/addes  that  he  was  called  byChrillf
avd  God\:he  fatherJtor  three
cauſes.  The  firſt,wasto  (ignifiethe  coaſent  of  will  in  the  Father  &
Chriſt.  The  ſecond  was  toteach  vs  how  wee  are  to  conceiue  of
God,namely  thathe  is  the  Father,and  leſus  Chriſt,  and  the  holy  ;  5
Gholt  :  for  the  Godhead  may  not  be  concetued  out  of  the  Trinitie
of  perſons.  Thethird  is,  becauſe  the  Father  ische  fountaine  of  all
ou  things  that  come  to  vs  by  Chrilt.La(tly,be  ſets  down  the  ef-
&  or  ation  of  the  Father[  who  rai/ed  bim  from  the  dead]  &cthatfor
two  cauſes.  One  waste  prooue  Chriſt  to  be  the  natural  Sonne  of  ,g
God,for  he  profelled  himlſeife  to  beſo  :  &  that  was  one  cauſe  why
he  was  crucified  and  putto  death.  Now  when  he  was  dead,  if  hee
had  not  bin  the  Son  ot  God  indeed,
he  had  aecuer  riſen  againe  but
hed  in  death.  And  in  that  the  Father  rarſed  him  againeto
life,
e  gave  teſtimony  that  be  was  bis  owne  naturall  Son.  Aadthere-  z  5
fore
a»/{aith  that  Chrift  was  declared  to  be  the  Sonne  of  God  by  the  re=
fſurrettion
from  the  dead  :  and  hee  apphesthe  wordes  of  the  Plalme,
(thou  art  my  ſonne  this  day  baue  1  brgotten  thee  )tothetime  of  Chrilts
relurreion.  porn.  thereſarre&ion  of  Chrilt,to
notethetime  of  his  one  calling  :  for  though  thereſt  ofthe  Apo-  ,g
ſtleswere  called  when  Chrilt  was
io  theeſtateof  bumiliatioo,yet
Paul  wascalled  afterwards,  when  Chriſt  wasentredjntohisking-
dome,and  fateat  the  right  hand  of  his  Father.
_  .
ieſt,wheras  n_  the  very  forefront  of  »  E  eds:
gios
with  his  ownecalliog,l
gather,that  every  miniſter  of  the
Gol-
peloughtto  baue  a  good  ml  lawful
calli
many  canoot
preach  ”
wnles  be  beſent,Chrilt  rook  not  vnto  him  the  office
of  a  Mediator  til
he  was  called  and  ſent  of  the  Father,  Therefore  the  opinion  of  the
Anabaptiltsis  fooliſh  and  fantaſticall,who  thioke  that  euery  man
may  preach  that  wil  without  any  ſpecial  calling.  They  alledge  that  4+
x.Cor,16,15
9  boſe  of
Stephana,
ordained  themſelnes  to  the
miniſter)  of  the  Saints.
imp,  *  Ank
were,  the  meaning  of  theplaceis  not  that  TER.
"Y
