---
page: 119
pdf_page: 141
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap.2.
mult  now  lay  out
our  ſelues  as  dead  perſpris;  Corruption  of  na-
ture,reaſon,and  will,mu(t
be  dead  in  vschat  Chriſt  alone  may  lige
and  reignein  vs.
e's
T  he  third  point  ——,  ſpirituall  life
is,  toucbing  the  ori-
ginall  and  well-ſpring  thereof,  in  theſe  wordes,.  That  Chriit  may
5  line  in  wee.  Forthe  better  conceiuing  whereof,  three  poiotsare
to  be  obſerued.  The  firſt,  that  Chriſt  isnotoedy  the  Author,  with
the  Father  and  the  holy  Ghoit,but  alſo  the  root  of  life  ;  having  life
in  bimſelfe,  that  bee  may  convay  it  toall  that  belecue.in  him.  He
BO  ;;
the  true  vine,  and  wee  are  the  branches,  lohy  15.1.  heeis  an  appoimted
bead  to  bis  Chureb,Ephe(,  1,22.  he  is  the  prince  of  fe,  Alles  3.45,  hee
is  aquickening  ſpirit,  1.Cor.1  5.498  And  in  this  regard  bee  is  ſhid:  ro
live  movs,npamely,as  arootin  thebranch,or  asthe  titad  jolie  mem-
bers.
T  he  ſecond  pointis,that  there  mult  be  an  ynioo  withChrilt,
15  before  wecan  recciue  life  from  bim,and  helivein  vs.,  1f  ye  abide  in
med  7
in  you,
ye  ſhall  bring  feorth,
much  fruit;{obn  15.4.  \Ve  malt  bee
grafted  with  him  before  we
conformable  to\:his  death  and
reſurreRtion,  Row.'5.5,  And  apaine,
wee  mult  betaken  out  of  the
wilde  oliue,;andſctin  the  true  oliue,/om.  11.24,  Thus  much  Paw
20  ſignifieth,  whenhe  ſaith,  Chrift  /nes  in  mee,  Of  this  copiynion
twothings  multbe  noted.  Thefirlt,;that  it  is  aſubſtantiallynion:
inthat  the  perſon  of  him  that  beleeueth,is  voited  to  theperſon  of
Chriſt.  For'we  mult  eate  the  fl-ſo
of  Chrift,and  drinke  his  blood  ,  bes
fore  wee  can  hauelifeabidiog  in  vs,  fobs  6,53.  and  oy  bodies  are
25  member;  of  Chrift,  1.Cor.  6.15.  Againe;  this  voion  is  {ſpiritually
becauſe  it  is  made  bythe  bond  of  one  Spirit,  +.  Cor,  12.13.  By  one
ſparis  wee  are  baptized  wnto  one  bodie,  And  no  man  is  to  maruaile,
that  we  on  carth  ſhould  beeioyned  to  Chrilt  in  heauen,  By  civill
contract  man  and  wife  are  one  fleſb,  though  diſtant  many  miles
-30  alunder  :  why.then  may  not  wee  be  ioyned  to  Chrilt  by  vertue
of
the  couenantof  grace  ?  conlidering  no  dillance  of  place  can-hin-
derthe  being  of  the  Spirit  of  Chrilt  in  vs.  The  third  poiot  is,tbat
aftertbis  vnion  with  Chriſt,he  muſt  further  commanicate  himſclie
vatove,before  we  can  live  by  him,and  hein  vs.  To  this-purpole  5.
35  Jobalaith;that  God  hath  ginenvs  life:  that  this  tuft  u  im  the  Some  :  that
hee  which  bath  the  Sounegbath  life,  1.1obn  5.12,  For  the  conceiuing  of
this  truth;two  queſtions  may  be  demaunded,  One,ia  what  orger
Chriſt  giueshimſelfe  vnto  vs  ?  Anſwer,  Chrilt  felt  of  all  gives  ais
fleſk  and:  blood,  that  is,  him(elfe;  and  then  ſecondly  bis  gifts,
'40  namely,the  efficacieand  merit  of  his  death.  T  beiollicution  of  the
Lords  Supper  ſheweth  plſinly,that  we  are  not  partakers  of  the  be-
nefitsof  Chriſt,  yaletſe  firſt  of  all  Chrill  bimſelte  begiuea  veto  "
The
