---
page: 120
pdf_page: 142
---
A  Commentarie  pou
Chap.2.
428
T  he  ſecond  queſtion
is,)  bow-Chrift  can can  be  ſaid  to  line  in  vs?
Rods  vsin  reſpe&t  9  7  IPD  ods
Anſwer  ou
Pirit,1.Corinth.6,  15,
ſpeciall  operation
pernatur
of  the  ſpirit,  ithreefold,  The  belt  is,  when  God  im-
putesthe  righteouſneſſe
of  Chriſt  to  them  that  beleeve,  and  with.  #
of  this  Right,  -
ne  life,  andthe  Earnell
rae
namely,  the  firſt  fruices  of  the  ſpirit.  Hereupoo  iuſtification  is
bfe,  Kew.5.  Tbe  ſecond  is,  Viuification
offication  of
called  rbe  /
by
theverrue  ofthe  reſurre&ionof
Chriſt,  Pbil.3.
10.  Andthis
vertue
is  the  power  ofthe  God-head
of  Chriſt,  or  the  power
of
the
ſpicit.raifing
vs  to  newnelle
of  life,  as  it  raiſed  Chriſt,  from
the
of  linoe.  And  by  this
,.Chriſtisfaid
to  liveinthem
prev  x1:  hg  wry
IDES
oerlaſting
nn
Row.  8.11.
Thorthen  omectiagofthenardels  caldentuhee  Chrift
as  a  Ig
todyevnto
to
animes  age
Os
this  not  privately  of
but  generally
in  thename  of  all  b-
Þ}
ar  taan  on  INE
OR  Chriſt  s  in  yon,except'Rt
reprobates?
fo  Thevſe.  Hence  it  followes,thatthey
which  are  trye  beleevers,
cannot  make  a  practiſe  of  fine  :  and  againe,  that  they  (inne  not
with  thetfull  conſent,or
oftheir  wills.  Becauſe,  Chrilt  lines
inthem,andreſtraines
the
will  in  part,  When  they  ſinne  therefore,
15
—_  e's
ly  ful  -
troe
aw
grace:
becauſe  the  life  of  Chriſt cannot  be  aboliſhed.  As  Chriſt  died  but
once,and
for  ever  after  livesto  God:  ſo  they  that  are  in  Chrilt,dye
once  to  (ione,and  live
toGod,Rew.6c.10,
The  vertue  and  1g
power  of  God,that
was  ſhewedin  raiſing  Chrilt  tolife,  is  likewiſe
{hewedin  quickning  them  that  doe  beleeue.Zpb,  r.29.Hetherfore
that  is  madealiueto  God,  dyes  no  more,  but  remaines  aliue  as
-Cheift  doth.”
Thirdly,they  which  are  true  beleevers,  area  free  and  voluntary  ;5
WES  DO”  there  were  no  law  to  compell  them.  For
they  baue
Chriſt
toliue  in  them.Reade
P/a.1  10,2,  he  ſpirit  of  life
that  is  ia  Chriſtis  alſoin  them,
and  that  is  their  law,  Xows$.2.  It  is
JUN  Ar  Bey  >»
ver  PIT  RAR  |
quality  ofthe
fireto  burnewhen  matterisputto
it,
40
It  may  be  here  demanded,  how  we  may  know  that  Chrilt  lives
in  vs  ?  Anſ.  By  the  Spitit  of  God,  4.10þ,3.24,  And  the  —_  is
nowne
