---
page: 143
pdf_page: 165
sortable_pagination_id: "143"
---
the  Epitle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.3.
taught  by  Pax:  they  had  received  the  =_  of  adoption:  they  were
enabledro  worke  miracles:  and  yet  for  all  this  they  fall  away  to
another  G
They  muſt  be  a  looking  glatſeto  vs,  In  peace  we
arenowconltant:  butif  rriall  ſhall  come,our  frailtie  ſhall  ppeare.
5s  That  ourfrailty  and  weaknes  may  not  be  hurtful  to  vs,
we  mult  re.
member  tworules.One  is,not  to  have  aconceitof  any  thing  in  ve,
but
to  hold  our  faith  &  religion  in  feare,  as  in  the  preſence  of  God,
Row.1  1.20.  Theſecond,to  take  heed  thatthere  benot  in  vs  an  e-
vill,corrupt,and  di(ſembling  heart.  For  if  our  heart  be  naught,  one
ro  faith  cannot  begood,
Heb.
4.1  2.
6  As  Abrahambeleeged  God,  and  it  was  imputed  to  him  for
riphteouſneſſe  :
7  Know  yee  therefore,  that  they  which  are  of  faith
are  the
children  of  Abrahan...
The  words,  Even  as  Abraham,  cc.  have  reference  to  that  which
went  before,on  this  manner.  Yee  Galatians  received  the  fpirit  by
wy  doarine  :  -and  my  doqrine  was  the  preaching  of  iuſtifica-
20  tion  by  faith  without  workes  :  which  dodtrine  is  like  and  ſuta-
ble  tathe  example
of  Abrabam,  nho  belrened  God,  and  it  was  im-
d  for  infrice.
'  Heere  Paw!  ſets  downe  the  ſecond  Argument,  whereby  hee
prooues  the  truth  of  his  doctrine,
And  it  is  framed  thus:  As
35  Abraham  was  iultifed,  fo  are  the  children  of  Abraham,  Abra-
bawi  was  Tollified
by  iuftice  imparted,  and  apprehended  by  faith,
verſe  6,
the  children
of  A5»«haw  are  thus  iullified.
This  concluſion  is  the  principall  queſtion  :  it  is  not  heere  ex-
ſed,  but  in  theroomethereof  a  declaration  is  made,  who  are
$0  the  true  children  of  God,  namely;they
that  areof  Abrabam,  in  re-
ſpe
of  faith.
That  which  is  heere  ſaid  of  Abraham,  is  a  maine  ground  con-
cerning  the  iuſtification  of  a  (inner,
in  the  bookes  of  the  old  and
new  Teſtament  :  thereforel  will  more  carefull;  ſearch  tbetrue  in-
35  terpretation  of  it.
Someexpound  the  words  thus:  Abraham  beleeued  God,and  the
world  reputed  him  for  a  good  and  vertuous  man.  But  it  this  be  the
right  ſenſe,then  Pas/  is  deceiued,who  brings  this  text  to  prouethe
juſtification  of  Abraham,not  only  before  men,but  allo  betoreGod.
4  Now  vertueand  goodnelle,  which  is  in  eſtimation  among  men,  is
not  ſufficientto  acquit  and  iuſtifie  vs  before  God.
The  ſecond  expolition  isof  the  Papilts,
who  by  faich  bere  vn-
derlitand
