---
page: 144
pdf_page: 166
sortable_pagination_id: "144"
---
I52
Chap:3+
A  Commentarie  pon
derſtand;a  generallfaith,wherby  the  articles  of  faith  are  beleeved,
And  by  imputation,they  vnderſtand  reputation,  whereby  athing  is6
ſteerned  asit  isindeed.  And  they  teach  that  faith  is  reputed  for  righ-
teouſnes;  becaule{  ſay  they)  faith  formed  with  charitie,  is  indeed
the  iuſtice  wherby  a  {inner  is  iuſtified  before  God,  But  this  expoſ;.  5
tion  hath  his  defects  and  errovurs.  For  firſt
of  all,;charitie  is  not  the
forme,or  life  of  faith,butthe  <1
wereg-  ns  it.  _
wn,  1,5.The
end  of  teaching
is  lone  ont  of  a  pwre
heart,  good  conſtience,and
faith  ynfai-
—  etc  that
«4  the  body  14  dead  withowt  the  ſonle,  ſo  ts
faith
without  wor  hers  lames  2.45.  and  therefore  that  workes  are  the  lifeof  1
faith.  Anſw.  S.[ame:  by  faith  vnderſtands  a  pretended  faith,or  the
profeſſon  of  faith,as  appeares  —"—_  words,  v.  14.  though  «
marſay
he  bath  faith  :  and  v.  18,  ſhew
me  thy  faith,  Now  of  this  profeſſion  of
faith,works  arethe  life.
Secondly,this  expolition  makes  faith,onthe  aR  of  beleeviog,to  15
be  our  whole  and  intire  _—_—  —_  -  =  _  indeed  if  it  be
wvltic;it  is  but  one  part
beleeving,  loue
cannot  beincluded:
T  hirdiy,  faith-ioyned  with  charitie,is  not  the  juſtice  whereby  a
ſinner  isiuſtifed.  For  our  faith  and  love  arebothimperteR  :  and  z@.
faith  is  imputed
for  rigbteouſnes  without  works,Rem.  4.6.6  theres
fore  without  charitie.
For  this  is  charitie,to  keepe  the  commande«
ments  of  God,  /oby  15.10.
Pax  faith,that  therighteouſneile  whier.
by  weare  iuſtified,isby,or  ehrovgb  farth,Pbul.  3.9.  and  therefore
our
julliceand  our  faith,are  two  dilfiof  things,
1s
T  hethird  expoſition  isallo  fromthe  Papiſts,  that  faith  isrepu-
ted  for  righteouſnes  :  becaulc  itis  reputed  co  be  aſuthcient  meanes
to  prepare  men  to  their  iuſtification  :  but  thiscapnot  bethe  ſenſe
of  this  place.
For  this  was  ſpoken  of  Abrahamatter  he  was  iullived,
and  thcrefore  needed  no  preparation  to  juſtification.
ag
I  et  vs  now  cometo  the  true  ſenſe  of  the  wordes,  In  them  |
con(ider  two  things,  Abrebams  faith,
in  theſe  wordes,  Avrabambe-
leened  God  :  and  Uhefuite  of  his  faith,  in  theſe  wordes,  and  it  was
ympured  to  ham  for  righteouſneſſe.  Touching  hisfaith,  I
conſider  three
thiogs.
The  ficltis,the  occalion,which  was  on  this  manner.  Aﬀter  35
the  conquelt  of  the  heathen  Kings;  Abrabam  was  ſtilin  fone  feare:
In  this  regard  the  Lord  comforts  him,  Geneſ.1  5.1.  /  am  thy  buckler,
and  thy  exceeding
great  reward.  But  to  this  Abrabemy  replies,  /
want
i{/ne  :  and  the  Lord  anſwers,  /  will  mike  thy  ſeede  a4  the  fharre:  of
heanen,Geneſ.15  5,  Now  then,lookeas  God  renewes  and  iplarges  #
bis  promiſe  to  Abrabam,
ſo  Abrabam  renewes  his  faith  :  and  bere-
upon  CMeſes,  and  Parl,  ſay,  Abrabam  belerncs  God,  God  doeth
won
