---
page: 145
pdf_page: 167
sortable_pagination_id: "145"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap:3.
not  now  inlarge  his  promiſes
tovs  as  to  Abrahew  :  neverthele
the
iſes  recorded  in  the  Bible,  are  renewed  to  vs  >
by  preaching,
and  partly  by  the  vſeof  the  Sacraments:  and  wee
accordingly  are  to  renew  our  faith  ,  ſpecially
io  the  time  of  feare,
5  and  danger.
gd
'  -  Theſecondthiog
is  theobieR,  or  matter  of  his  faith,and  that
is, the  multiplication
of  his  poſteritie.  It  may  be  ſaid,how  could
Abrahaw  beciultified
by  ſuch  a  faith?  4v/wer.  The  promile  of
the  multiplication  of  his  ſeed,  was  a  dependant  of  a  more  princi-
7  am  thy  God  all-ſufficient,  Gene.17.1,and,  /  am  thyex-
omile,
10  pall)
Lees  reward,  Gen.15.11.  In  thiscarnall
ſeed,  Abraham  (pe-
cially
reſpeRed(by
the  eye  of  faith)the  bleiſed  ſeedof  thewoman,
Hee  therefore  belecued  the  promiſe  of  a  ſeed,  asit  was  a  pledge
vato  him  of  a  thing  moreprincipall;  namely,  the  fauour  of  God,
25  andas  it  was  a  meanes  toetteR  the  incarnation  of  the  Sonne  of
God,  In  his  examplewee
are  tavght  how  wee  are
to  reſpeR,and
vie  eartbly  things  :  weeare  to  reſpe&tthem  as  pledges
of  Gods  fa-
uout  :  and  toviethem  as  meancs  to  furthervs  to  Chriſt,and  to  the
attainment
of  our  ſaluatioo.
-..
Thethird  point  is;the  propertieof  Abrabawr  faith,  which  wasa
faith  againſtbope-For  be  belecued  the  promiſe
of  a  ſeed,when  his
body  was  halfe  dead,and  Sara:  was  barreo.  Inlike  fort  we  keeping
truercligionand  good  canſcience,mull  in  allour  temptations,croi-
ſes,  miſeries,  iofirmities,  again(t  reaſoo,  ſenſe,  and  feeling,  belecue
25  the  promiſe  of  remillion  of  lianes,and  life  everlaſting.
Inthe  effe&  and  frouite  of  Abrahams  faith,  three  thingsmull  bee
conſidered.  T
he  firlt  is,  what  is  meantby  Tmpuration.  To  impure
properly  ,isa  ſpeech  borrowed  from  merchants  :  and  it  ſignifies  to
reckon,orto  keepeareckonipg
of  expences  andreceits.
1  bus  Pax/
20  ſfaitbsP  bilems.  1  E.I7  be
bans  doue
thee
any  wrong  jympute  it  10  me:  that  is,
ſetit  on  my  reckoning,  And  this  word  is  here  applied  to  the  iudg-
ment  of  God.  Becauſe  hee  is  our  ſoueraigne  Lord,and  wee  are  his
debters:  and  hee  doeth  adiudgevato  mea  for  their  (inncs,  either
pardon,or  puniſhment.
35
Imputationin  God  istwofold  :  one  Legall  ;  the  other  Evange-
licall.  Legalis,veHen  God  willeth  and  adiudgeth  thereward  to  him
that  folfilleth  the  Iaw.  Thus  P  as{(aith.Rom,4  $.that  the  wager  is  1n-
'puted  to  bim  that  worketh,and  that  of  debr.  Evangelical  imputation  is,
when  God  accepts
the  ſatisfaRion  of  Chriſt  our  ſurety  as  a  pairvec
4»  forour  ſinnes.  ln  this  ſenſe  isthe  word,  Impute,  taken  tentimesin
the4.chaptertothe  Komazes,and  inthe  ſameit  is  vied  in  this  place.
T  he  ſecond  point  is,whatis  imputed  ?  Aud  ir  was  imputed,  that
L  8
3s
