---
page: 146
pdf_page: 168
sortable_pagination_id: "146"
---
Chap.3-
A  Commentarie
pon
154
is,faith.  ng  re")
-  a
ons  dane
bein»
conſequently  caonot
,and
:  avdthusitis  i
in  it  ſelfe
gaine,  faith  mult  beconlideredas
puted  to  vs  for  our  iuſtification,
an  inſlroment;or  band  bolding  and  receiving  Chrilt  :  and  in  this
And  thus  mull  this  ,
regard  beleeving  is  put  forthethipg  beleeued,
It  was  imputed  to  humythat  is;the  thing  which
text  bee  vader!
his  faith  beleeued,was  ours  to  him  by  wed:  forthe  act  of  be-
tecuing  is  not  our  iultice,as  |  have  ſhewed,
T  he  third  point  is,vbatis  meant  by  righreonſueſſe
?  Anſw,  That
which  is  calledio  Scripture;the  luſtice  ot  God,  which  is  ſufficient  1,
ro  acquit  a  ſinnerat  the  barre  of  Gods  iud
t.  Thusthenthe
ſenſe
is  manifeſt  :  Abrahambelecucdthe  promiſe
of  God,  ſpecially
——  bleſſed  ſeed  :  and  that  which  hee  belceued,
the  obedience  of  the  Mediatour(the  bleſſed  (eed)  was  acceptedof
God  as  hisobedience;for  his  iuſtification.
puted,that  is,aſcribedto
him  astothe  Author  therof:  and  withall
becauſe  he  did  performeitin  our  roomeand  (icad,and  that
for  vs,
it  is  tobe  imputed  to  vs,
10
Secondly,  it  is  obieed;that  workesare  alſo  imputed,  as  wellas
amputed
cath
ſon  of  manuult,
«  that,  which
theaR
of  the
niulhand;;
not  theperſon  it  ſelfe.  Now  the
P/a/meipeakes  onely  of  the  iultice
of
Phinees  ation  :  andthe  meaning
ofthewords  is  this,  thatGod
reputed  his  ation  asaiult  ation,  whereasmen  might
CoD-
demne  it.This  place  thereforeproues  not  that  works  are  imputed
for  the  iuſtificationof  any  man.
zo
T  hirdly,it  is  obieRed;that  imputed  juſtice  was  never  knownin
the  Churchytill  :  500,  yeares  after  Chriſt.  Au/w.  Itis  falſe.  Bernard
Serm,  ad  mil.
ſaith  expreſly,Death  is  put  to  flight  by  the  death  of  Chriſt,and  the  wdlig
Temp.c.11,
of  Chriſt  is
1mputed  to11:  and  againe
he  ſaticfattion  of  Chrift  us
inmp#-
Epilt.  x  go,
ted  toys,  Againe,ſundry  of  the  Fathers,as  Angaſtine,  Hierome,Chry-  3;
ſoftome,  Theoderet,  Anſelme,  entreatipg  vpon  the  text  of  Paul,  2,Cor
$5.21.  ayouch,that  the  juſtice  whereby  we  are  iuſtified,  is  notin  vs,
butin  Chrift,  Anditisareceiued  doArine  with  themgthat  aaancr
ic  infifird  by  faith alone  :  now  faith  alone  prefuppoleth  animputs-
tion  of  juſtice.
31
The  vſe.  Hence  it  followes  ,  that  there  is  no  merit  of  mans
workesxither  in  the  beginning,
or  in  the  accompliſhment  of  o
11  (lifts
