---
page: 147
pdf_page: 169
sortable_pagination_id: "147"
---
the  Epiitle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.3.
zuſtification.  Forfaith  is  imputed  foriuſtice  to  him  that  beleeucth
and  worketh  not,Rew.4.s.
Againe,by
this  we  ſee  there  is  but  one  iuſtification;and  that  the
ſecond,
by  workes,whereby  a  man,of  a  good  man,  is  made  better,
}  isameerefiftion.  Fotiult  Abyabem  is  not  inltified  by  his  good
works  wherewith  he  abounded,but  after  his  ficlt  iaſtificationfaith
ſtill  is  imputed  to  him  for  righteouſne(ſe.
Thirdly,  bere  we  ſee  whact  is  that  very
thing,  whereby  wee  are
pn
rene  Pong  7  ned,  apd  that  isthe  obe-
10  Jience
of
Chriſt,  imputed  to  vs  of  God,  and  apprehended  by
our
'  Laſtly,  heere  wee  {ce  our  dutie.God  (its  as  a  Iudge  over  vs;  he
takes  a  reckoning
of  vs,  for  all  our  doings:  the  law  is  an  band-
15  Writing  again(t  vs:  toſome  hee  imputes  their  linnes,  to  ſome  hee
remits  them,  Ve  therefore  mult  come  into  the  preſence  of  God,
==  iltie,  and  acknowledge  our  ſelues  to  be  as  bankrupts,  and
im  to  graunt  pardon  tovs,  andto  accept  the  fatiltation
of  Chriſt  for  vs  :  then  will  God  not  impute  our  (innes,  but  the
obedience
of  Chriſt
for  our  iultification  :  and-accept  him  as  our
20  {uretiein  life  and  death.
The  declaration  of  the  concluſion  followes  ia  the  9.  verſe,  and
it  ſhewes  who  are  the  children
of  Abraham.  T  he  meaning  of  the
words  mult  firſt  be  conſidered.  79  be  of  faith,  is  to  be  of  Abrahams
faith,Rows.4.1  6,  And  to  be  of  Abrahams  faith,is  tobeleeue,  &  applic
25  thepromiſe  of  righteouſnes  and  life  everlaſting  by  Chrilt,as  Abra-
bamdid\:andtoreltinit  for  our  iuſtification  and  faluationverl.  10.
they
are  ſaid  to  be  of  worker,  who  do  the  works  of  the  law,and  looke
to  be
juſtified  thereby  :  therefore  they  are  of  faith,who  belceuc  in
Chriſt,and  looke  to  be  ſaued  and  iultified  thereby.
26
And  they  which  thus  beleeve  with  A5rabaw,  arefaid  to  bee
bis  children.  Ie  may  bedemanded,how  ?  An/w.  Children  of  Abra-
bem  areof  two  ſorts  :  ſome  by  nature,  ſome  by  grace.  By  nature
Erhey;
which  are  of
rabawby  the  fleſh,or  naturall  generation,
_—_—  was,  By  graceall  beleevers  are  children  of  Abraham:  and
35  thatthree  wayes,  Firlt,by  [mitation,  inthat  Abrahamis  (et  foorth
vnto  vs  asa  paterne,  inthe  ſteppesof  whole  faith  all  true  belee-
vers  walke,  Row,  4.  12.  Secondly,  belecuers  are  children  of  Avra-
ham,  by  ſucceſſion,  ipthat  they  ſucceed  in  theinheritance  of  the
to  him  by  akinde  of  [pi-
{fameblethng.  ec  rare  children
46  rituall
generation,
Tor  1  rabam
by  belceving  the  promiſe  of  a
ſced
did  after  a
fort  beget  them.  Indeed  properly  the  promiſe  and
election  of  God  makes  them  children  :  and  Abribam  by  bis  faith
S.
beleeuircg
