---
page: 126
pdf_page: 148
---
hs
134  *Chap'2.
*  4  Commentirie
ypo8
Havenot  ſweetned  vs,and  made  vs  ſagocriexthereforeit
is  to  befea-
redleaſt  66r  habititions  beatlepgth  '  curned  to
plater'of  nettks
andſaltpits.Fze.47.11,
Tidoe  noe  abr  Rs
e  of  God:
for
BW  ror  mor  6  Cher
to  of  rgnenſuſe
The  meaning.Grace  in
Seriptoresguibirhemothingychefie
favour  of
God;  ad  thegiftsof  Godin;  vs.  And  where  the  wy  4
goodwill  nou!  God,
pardon
firſt  ſeale,
ge
IS
and
;Tim.r.9.4,
col  nh
remit  of
-  rn  And  when  Paul
dee
not  gbrogate
the  graceof  Godghis  meaningis,l  doenotwake
orfratinicihsgimeob  Godin
tofimy  ſel  ,  ry  ts
other  belceuers,  by  teaching
1inaer
by
alone.  Hee  addes,  If  right
enſorrbe  the  law;  thatis,  if  a  Ns
be  juſtified  by  his  owne  obetlience,  in  performing,
the  lay,
Chriſt  died  without  cauſe.  The
The  worddvprer,  freely  can  (lated  wub-
out  cauſe,  hath  a  double  ſignification.  One  is,  when
it  lignifiesas  1g
much  as  without
price,  or
awerit.  euth.1o.8.
err  wn;
ive  freely,  The  ſecondis,
when  it  Ggnibes
where.  nf
Frienrenaſora  P/al.  69.4.  mma  wa.  ,
Freelys(  a5  the
T4
tranflate)chatis,  wrongfully  ,or  without  iult  _  Thus  heere
Chriltfaid
to  diefree(y,thatig;in  vaine,  or  without  cauſe:  bene
we  beiullified  nas»
need  tb  Lp
romake  any  (atisfactiontothe
law  far  vs.
Theſe  words  are  an  anſwer  toan  obieRion.  T
Ifthou  teach  thar  afinner
is  iullified  onel  ry
then  thou  aboliſheſt
the  grace  of
God.  T  exnſnerionexat
doe  not  by  this  doftrine  abrogate  the  grace  ofGod.  Antthers
a  reaſon  allo  ofthis  anſwer:  It  wee  bze  1allified  by  our  Ve  Bl
ofthe  law;then
Chrilt diedin  vaine.cafalfill  thelaw  for  ys.
hevle.  Firſt,  let  vs  marke
that  Paw(;{aithe
doth  not
«brog  +1
raceof  Gab
and  why  ?becauſe  hee  will,  CE
Rel
ng  3s
b*
our  iuftificationto  be  ioyncd  with  the  obedience  «
Chriſt.  And  hence  welearne,  what  isthe  natureof  grace.  ,
ayes
and  wholly  ,  andintirely  in  it  ſelfe,  Gods  grace,  capaot  (land
with  mans  merit.  Grace  isno
voletſeit  befrecly  Upen  ry
Rom.4.4.  To  bim  that
worketh,  the  wages  i  ginenynot
of
abut  i
of
defer,  Romainer  11:6,  Tf
eleflion  bre  of
graces  then  not  _
e  9  gracene  grace,Grace,
and  workeg
of  grace  ia  the  con  pl
iul[tihcations
