---
page: 15
pdf_page: 15
---
ro  —C  *  =
w,
F.
ah
—_—
ran  wh
+  oo)  uh  -
-%
-”-”
LATY
"=
the  Epiſtle  tothe  Galatians,
Chip,
ſelves,  botthat  they  ſet  themſelves  apart  to  the  miniſterie  of  the
Szints,in  the  purpoſe  and  reſolution  ot  their  owne  hearts,  Againe
they  alledge;that  ?Il  Chriltians  in  thenew  Teſtament  are  Kings  and  Apoc.s  10.
Pri-Res,  and  the  office  of  the  Prieſt  is  t©  teach.  I  an{were,all  are
Prieſts  in  that  they  areto  offer  themſelues  in  {acrifice  roGod:  and
to  teach  privatly  within  their  places  and  callmgs,as  themaſter  his
ſeruants;the  father  his  children,  &c.  and  to  make  a  confeſſion  of
theiefaithywhen  they  are  called  ſo  rodoe.  Thirdly,  they  alleadge,
that  thepowerofthe  keies  isgiveptothe  Cburch.  lapſwer,itis  in-
30  deed;  Fet  {o  as  thevic  anda
tation  thereof  belongs  to  the
Miviſterg  lone,in  thediſpenfation'of  the  word.  ..:  -
-  Secondly,whereas  P  as/  faith  (Not  of  men,but  of  Chriit)1  gather
that  every  lawfull  calling  is  of  God,  and  not  of  menas  authours
thereof:  andthat  the  right  to-call  belongs  to  God.  The  Father  Matth.g.
8.
thruſts  forth  labourers  into  hisvineyard  :  rhe  Sonne  giues  Paſtors  EPÞ<-4-'  1+
rs
and  teachers  :  the  boly  Ghoſtmakes  overſcers.  Itmiy  bealledged
******:
that  the  Church  hath  authoritie  to  call  andordaine  Miniſters,  [
anſwere,that  the  Churches  authoritic  is  no  more  but  a  minilterie
or  ſervice,  whereby  it  doeth  teltifie,  declare,  and  approoue  whom
20  God  hath  called.
*  Thirdly,whereas  Pa»/thous  proclaimes  his  calling,(Pas/  av  Apo-
ſte  4
Teſs  Chriſt)  |  gather  that  thecallings  ofthe  Minifters  of  che
Goſpel  muſt  be  manifelt  co  thejr  owne  conſciences,  &  the  conlci-
ences  of  thy  hearerg,and  that
fordivers  weighty  caules.  Firit,they
areembaſſadors,in(lruments,and  che  mouth  of  God:  and  for  this
cauſethey  areto  ſpeak  iv  the  name  of  God,&  thisthey  cannot  do,
vnleſſethey  know  themfelues  to  be  called.  '
Secondly,thatthe  cal-
livg  of  the  miniſtery
may  tend  toedification;there  is.  requiredthe
alhilance  of  Gods  fpiritio  the  teacher,  the  protection  of  him  &  his
30  miniſtery,the  effeuall  operation  of  the  ſpirit  in  the  hearts  of  the
hearers.  Andheethatwants  the  alſurance  of  his  calliog,  cannot
pray  to  Godin  faith  for  theſe  things:  neither  can-hee  apply  the.
promiſes  of  'God  to  himſclfe.  'T  birdly  ,  the  knowledge  of  our
calling  breeds  conſcience  of  our  dueties,  diligence,
apdthefeare.
33  ff  God.  .La(tly,knowledge  of  ocr  callings  in  thecooſciences  of
the  hearers,  breeds  a  reverroce  iptheirhearts  ,  and  obedicnce  to
theminilteric  of  the  word;,'Vpon\:tbis,  tome  may  demaund,  bow
chey-may  knowe\:thit  HHity
#re-alled  of  Gud  tothe  miviſteric
ofclibivgrd.  Apſwere?  \:they  may.  know  it,  it  they.  finde  three
4  things  iBtThettiſelues  :»the  felt  istheteftimony  of  their  conſcien-
cevthat  they  cntrednottor  praiſe,  honour,  lucre,  but  in  the:  feare
of  God,  with  a  delire  to  glorific  him,  and  to  edifie  the.  Church.
The
