---
page: 150
pdf_page: 172
sortable_pagination_id: "150"
---
Chap.3-
A  Commentarie
pon
158
is  God  by  this  do.
to be  done,  Att.q  28.  Neither
ed  bad  determined
of  ſinne.  For  linne comes  topaiſe,not  from  -
Arine  made  the  author
the  will  of  God,but  according  to  his  will  \:in  that  he  forelees  cull,
and  withall  wills  notto  binderthe  being  of  it:  and  evill  not  bin-
dred,comes  topalle.
Againejit  may  bedemanded,in  what  order  the  fore  knowledge
of  God  (tands  to  his  will.  A»{.T  he  fore-knowledgeof
things  that
may  poiliby  cometo  palſe,goes  before  his  will\:the
of  things  that  ſhall  certainly  cometo  palle,followes  the  will,  and
decree  of  God.For  things  come  not  to  palle,becauſe  they  are  fore»  30
ſcene  ;  but  becaulethey  are  tocome  topalie  accordi
will
ot  Gad  ;  therefore  they  are  foreſecne.Now  then
foreknow-
ledgein  God,  is  ioyned  with  his  will,  and  is  alwaies  a  conſequent
of  it,itis  often  put  forthecounſell,  will,  and  decree  of  God  as  in
this  place.
15
'F
Inthistext,two  thipgs  areto
be  con(idered  of  Gods  foreknow-
ledge:  The  firſt  args  =  an  a
?  AP  hereis  made;7be
Scriyture  foreſees  :  that  is,.
an
th  by  foreſceneby  him,  Hence  it  Sons  that  the  writings
of
Moſes  arethe
word  of  God.  For
-relichings  tocome  2000,  ,;
yeares  after,  as  thecalling  and  benediion  ofthe  Gentiles  io  the
ſecede  of  1brahaw.  Inthelameregard  the  writings  of  Pa»/  are  the
word  of  God.  For  therehe
and  fets  down  in  writi
then  2000,  yeares  after,what
was  the  intention  of  God,whea  hee
ſaid  to  Abrabam
In  ther  ſpall
all  the  Gentile:  be  bleſſed.
23
The  ſecond  point  is,  whatis  foreſeene  ?  Anſwer  is  made,  that
God  inſtifieth  the  Gemtules,  thatis,  God  will  as  certainly  iuſtibe  them
in  timeto  come,  as  if  hehad  then  done  it,  when  hee  ſpake  theſe
words.  Some  teach  that  the  Predellination  of  Godzis  bis  decreejn
which  he  parpolethto  redeeme,and  jvuſtifie  all  men,ot
all  ages,and  54
times,ſo  beit;they  will  beleeve.  But  1  finde
oo  ſuchdecreein  the
word.  Here  we  ſee  Gods  decree,  is  onely  to  iuſtific  all  Gentiles  in
the  laſt  age  ofthe  world.  Andthos  the  text  of  Pa#/mault  be  vnder-
{t00d,God  would  haue  all  men  to  be  ſaned,  1.7  im.2.namely,all  men,  of
allthe  Geariles  in  the  lait
age  of  che  warld;and
not  al  the  Gentiles,  35
ofall  Þ  9s  times,
In  the
next  place,  the  manner-  ofthe  ſpeech-and  teſlimony  of
God  mult  be  conlidered,.in  that  be  is  ſaid  to
preach  the  Goſpel/to  A-
brabam.  Here  marke  the
Antiquity
ofthe
|:  and  the  markes
oftruereligion,  which  for  his
ſubſtance  was  knowne  not  ovely  to  4»
the  Apoſtles,butalſo  tothe  Prophers,and  Patrlarks.  Soancientis
the  true  way  of  life,and  the  doftrine  of  iultificativn  by  faitb,with-
out.
