---
page: 151
pdf_page: 173
sortable_pagination_id: "151"
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.  3.
out  workes.  '
Papiſtes  pleadeantiquitie
for  their  religion:  butin
vaine  :  forthe  properpointsand  heads  of  theirreligion  weretaken
vp  lince  the  dayes
of  Chrittſome,two  hundred  yearesafter,ſome
fourehundred,ſome
fix  hundred,ſomeeight
hundred,  ſome  athou-
ſand,and  ſomefoureteenchundred  yeares  after.
Thethirdpoynt;  istheſpeach;orteſtimony  it  ſeife  :
/»thee  fats
allthe  Gemilzs  be
bleſſed,  In  thee;that
is in  thy  ſeed,  Chriit,  Gene.22.
18,  whois
in  thy  loines  +  into  whomthe  Gentiles  are  ingrafted
faith,and  conſequently
into  thee,  Forthey  are  the  ſeed  of  Chil
10  J;.53.10,whoisthelcedot  eAbrahoms.  Againe,  here  it  is  faid,
All  the  Gentiles:  but  Gen,  17.4.  Abrahawis  called  the  father
xivt  of  all,
but
of  many  nations,  Auſw,  He  is  the  father
of  may,  in  reſpe  of  his
"fleſh;  and  beis
father  of  afthe  Gentiles
in  regard  of  his  faith,  A-
gaive,it  is  vſuallin  larger  tegyente  word  Al,  for  many,
Rom.  5.
x5  15.18.  And  the
ition  heere  mentioned  ,comprebends
all
the  ſpirituall  gracesof  Godas  vocation,jiuſtification,glorification,
Epheſct,v.3.
049
029
The  vſe.  In  that  the  Lord  faith,  -  Af  the  nations  ſhalt  bee  bleſſed
im  Abraham  :  Hence  |  gather,  thatthenation
of  the  lewes
20  bee  called,  and  conuerted  to  the  participation  of  this
bl
when,  and  bow,  God  knowes  :  but  chat  it  ſhall  be  done  before  t
ende
of  the  world,  wee  know.  For
if  all  aations  ſhall  beecalled,
then
the  lewes.
Apgaine,  that  which  wasforetold  to  4brabam.,  is  verified  in  our
15
eyes.  For  this  our  Engliſh  nation,  and  many  other  nations  are  at
this  day  bleiled  intbis  {ced  of  Afrabams.,  Vpon  the  conlidera-
tion  of  this,
we  are  admoniſhed  of  many  things.  Firſt,  wee  are
togive  to  'God  great  thanksand  praiſe,  that  weeare  borne  ia  theſe
dayes,  For  many  Prophets  andgreat  Kings  defired  toſce  that
30  which
we  ſce,and  couldnot  obtaiweir.  Secondly,  we  muſt  every
one
of  vs  in  our  hearts  amend  and  turneto  God,  and  vofained-
Iy  beleeue  in  Chrilt,  that  wee  may  now  in  the  acceptable  day  bee
of  the  promiſed  bleſling.  The  Lord  ſaith,  Gene,  22-1  8,
In  thy  ſeed  all  the  nationrof  the  earth  ſoall  bee  bleſſed,
or;  bleſſe  thew-
35  ſetnes  :  becauſe  they  ſhall  vie  all  good  meanes;that  they  may  bee
filled  with  the  bleſſings  of  God.  T  birdly,  we  mult  bleiſeall,  doe
'good  toall,  and  hurt  ronone:  for,  wee  are  berres  of  bleſſmgg  1.  Per.
3.8.  Laſtly,we  mult  here  marke  our  comfore:  if  we  truly  turneto
God,  and  Cdecoria  theholy  ſeed
of  Abrahemsyall  things  ſhall  go
40  well  with  vs:  God  ſoall  bleſſe  thens  that  bleſſevs,  and  curſe  them  that
enrſe  v5zGen,12.3,
The  ninth  verle,is  the  concluſion  of  Pas/  anſwer  :  and  it  -
a  ©
I»
effect
