---
page: 155
pdf_page: 177
sortable_pagination_id: "155"
---
163
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.3-
have  fred,  Na.
to  mercy.  When  Dawidlaid,
word  )was  receiued
forginenthee,  It  may  bethou'
than  in  thename  of  God  ſaid,7hy  ſin  ie
wilt  Jy  mr  In  Anſwer.  hegheoaro  ;  ps  obthelaw
moſt  bee  vaderſtoc  Iwith  anexcegrion  w
Golpell
makes,
this  manner  :
ne  law
Curiedis
the
tranigrello  andthe
DIraar
"Yar
Foire
GolpelG
ns
is
*  i  ran
exception
&  _
Nineue  ſhallbe
deſtroyed  :
yetevithall  hee  adc
ITT
wilt  =  wy  lins  arevery  opment  Apa
80  the  curſe.  4».  Forgiueneilc  is  promiſed
any
.vucober  exkedael  Jinn:  (oay0y
excepted.)  Ther
ISL
CIpomIne
throne  of  M—_—
a=  forgiueneſſe  as  for  lifeand  death,and
thou  ſhalteſcape
the
13
Thethird
Anu...  F)  honemrecomtad:  2  Aufrlopreſent,
in  the  time  of  thislife,  For  the  Lord  ſaith  not,be  fall  beenceurſed  2
but,  he  is  acerrſed,  T  here
bee  amgng  vs  whom  noSermons  orex-
bortations  will  amend  :  and  ſuch  perſans  thinke  themſelues  with-
out  thereach  of  apy  danger.  Forthey  thinketbetimeis  very  loug
20  tothe  lalt  iudgement.  But  they  are  decciued  touching  thernſelues.
For  God  with:  his  owne  mouth  hath  giuen  the  ſentence,that  they
arc  accurſedzthereremaines  nothing
but  the  execution.  T  he  haltes
isalready  about  their  neckes,  and  thereremaines  nothing  but  the
turning  of
the  ladder.  Nay  the  execution  is  already  in  blindnefle  of
25  mind,adbardoeiſe  of  heart.  He  that  belecues  not;is  already  con-
demned,/obn  ;,
Laſtly,  a  memorable  concla{ion
af  2  al  is  hecre  to  bee  obſer-
ved;  That  it  is  impoſible  tor-any  man  within  himſelfe,  for  the
time  of  this  life,
to  fulfill  the  law  0fGod.  For  Pas!  here  takes
it  for
$0  aconfeiled  and  graunted  eonclulion  :
atberwiſe  his  argument  wil
not  hold  :
which  mult  be  framedoo  this  manner,  Hewhich  fulfils
notthelaw,idcurſed  ;  noon  bichi
is  of;  norkes,fulfills
not  the  law  :
thereforehei
het,  procycit  h
wee  could  ful
fill  the  law,  weemight  be  Fj  e
mancan  bee
.35  iultified  by  thelaw,or  by  workes  :  ther  _  man  can  fulfill  the
law.  Againe,  Pas  {aith,&om,  7.14.  that  the  law  was  fpiripnallrequi-
Ting  inward.cnd  (pirituall  obedience,  and  that  beg  was  carnal,  and
therefore
nyt  coutormable  tothe  law  :  that  be  was  ſold  under  [inn  :
that  when  he  wonld  doe  goodguil!  was  preſent  5
that  he  carried  about  bing
49  the  bedy  of  dearb,  And  all  this  heeſaithof  himſclte,  about  twentie
yeares  after  his  0wneconuerliop.  Such  as  our  knowledge  is,fuch
is  our  loueto  Ged  and  man,  Now  wee  know  God  onely  in  part;
there:
