---
page: 157
pdf_page: 179
sortable_pagination_id: "157"
---
the  Epiſte  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.4.
165
God  with
ali  big  heart,  with  althes  ſonle,  and  with
ai  bis  ftrength,areors
ding  to  all  the  law  of  Moſes.2.Kmg.23.25.  Anſwel  bephtafe  [uh  alrby:
heart}is  taken  in  a  doubld
Ggnitontian;hametime  it  is0ppoledto
a  double  heart,and  then
it  Gignifies,a  true,  vpright  heart,..  without.
5  guileor  dilimulation.  T  bas  they  obZebulonare  laide,  nor
with  a  donble  beart,”  1  Chren,12.33,  bot  nub  raperfeit  bearty  vgs,
Where,  marke  the
oppoſitions:  efan  whole  or  pertet  heart,  20-9:
double  heart.
|nthisſepſe
are  theplaces  before  named,to-be
vnder-
ſtood.  Neuertheleiſe;the  whole  heart,  ſoule,  and  (treagth,in  the
10  ſummeofthe  morall  law,{ignifies  altpowerrotthetovltzand  allthe
(reogtbofalche  powers.  T
hus  doth  Pan/Kew.7.cxpoundthelaws
whenhe  faith,  the  /aw  @  fpiritmall-y  and
ay  the  probibitionatioll,.
giuesthe
ingofthe
whale  law.:/Ferconcypilcence,
:  otlult,
Wy
rſt  eboughts,ormdtions.=
1  (17G
&,  1  1.  Nenhis  ſaid  to be  mit and
perfettGen.5.and
God  com-
mands  Abraham  to  walke  before  hnm,and
to  be  perfeft,  Gen,17.,1,'  Paul
ſaith,  Let  as  manyur  bt  perfettybe
thiu  winded;Plul.3.1  5."  Anſm,  There
8a  doublepertedtion
;pirfection  of  partoand  perfeition  of  drgrogreP
er-
feition
of  part:  is,  when  a  man  bath  in  himafter  he  is  regenerate;
the
20
beginningsof  all  vertues,and  the  feedes  of  allgraces  :  by-which  he!
endeauours,  to  obey  Godinall
his  lawes  and  commandements.
Perfethan
of  degrees,is  when  the law  is  fulfilletl  both,  jo,
matrerand
mannerzaccording
to  tlierigouroftbe  law.  Now  the  former  pje-
ces  ſpeakeonely  of  theperfeRtiads
tandehatis/ucha  pertc-.
x5  tion
in  which  wee  are  to  acknowledge
our  im
i00,;
and
it  _  more  but  a  true  and  generall  indeauour  to
Iſa.3%
3.
v6
L  off:  2lleite};o
Ole  1  11.  Sundry  holy  men  are  ſaide  to  fulbllabe
law  De-
1d  turned
from  nothing  that  Fagan  rey  þ
30  life,  ſawe  in  the  matter  of  Vriakb,.  1.
King,
15.5.2  achaty  aud
'y
walked
in  all  the  commundement:  of
God,  and  that  withuut' reproofe  be-
fore  Gad.  Luk,  1.6.  Anſw.  T  here  aretwo  kinds  of  fulfilling  thelawr
one  Leg/l,  the  other  Exangeheall,  Legallis,  when  meo  doe  all
things  requiredin  the  law,  and  that  by  themſcloes  and  ip  them-
35  ſelves.  Thus  none  euce  fulfilled  the  law,but  Chrilt,and  Adaw  be-
fore  bis  fall.  T  he  Exange/ica/l  manner  of  fulblling  the  law;is  to  be-
leeve  in  Chriſt,  who
led  the  law  for  vs  :  and  withall  toiodca-
uour
in  the  whole  man,to  obey  God  in  all  bis  precepts.  And  this
indeauour  ioined  with  the  purpoſe  of  not  (inning,iscalledtherigh-
40  tcouſnelſe  of  good  conſcience  z  andthoughit  be  notreally  a
fulbl-
ling  of  the  law,  yet  it  isaccepted  of  Godas  afoltilling  of  the  law  in
althem  that  are.in  Chriſt,  For  God  accepts  the  indeauour  to  4
or
