---
page: 137
pdf_page: 159
---
the  Epiflile  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.  3.
ES  CRONE  Tos  For  ſuppoſe  they
knowledge  fufficient  ,  yet  have  they  neede  of  the  ſpirit
of
En
gouernethem.
'  Further,
letit  be  obſerved,  what  is  theſcope
of  all  our  bearing,
|  cndtoeciing  matey
namely
,  that  wee  may  recciue
the  ſpirit
of  God  :
Inwe  can  doe  noth
ymnmtmmmp
,  Paulhereſets  downean  infallible  argoment,where-
may  be  aſſuredthat  the  Scripture  is  the  word  of  God.  For
efoiperre
in  theirright  vſe(which  is  in  reading,  hearing,medi-
ro  tation.)  have  the  divine  and  ſupernaturall  operation  of  the
ſpirit
yp  them,  tocomfort  in  all  COILS  very
and  to  convert  the  hexrt  of  man,  making
io
refpect
of  righteouſneile  and  holinefle  ,  like  vnto  Ga  [  bs
priviledge
havethe  Scriptures,  //a.  59.21.  and  no  word  elle.
Laſtly,
let  vs  here  obſerve  the  certen  marke  oftruereligion:  and
that  is;t  ER  IISLIING  a
.  This
doth  aort  thepretended  Catholike  Religion  ofthe  Papiſts:  it  doth
not  conferre  voto  men  the  {pirit  to  a{lure  them  that  they  are  the
children
of  God,  becauſe  it  teacheth
that  we  are  to  be  in  ſuſpence
20  of  our  ſalvation.  Againe,  by  teaching
humane  ſatisfaRions,  and
merits,it  miniſtreth  theſpiri  of
qd  re  +
ption,
as  alſothe
ſptritofcrpcltie,  and  note
they  ofthat  religion,
delightin  blood:  Jcndthere  hianevinao  wares,  o-feds
tions,  or
in  Europe,  for  many  ages,  but  they  of  the Ro-
25  miſh  religion,  have  bio  at  one  end  of  thern.
When  ant  faith,  3.  Began  je  mihe
(pirit  cc.  he  teacheth  a  divine
inſtruion;thet
haterve  godlineſſe  &  R
ſtands
in  tbe  ſpirit,that
roropl  pre  reteri  ke)
the  hearr,or  in  the  exerciſes  of  theinner  mas,  whe-
hereof  To  bee  dandy  airs  weve
30
45.143.  Tru#  wor-
rennwboby,  aleteſir'
714  re
wa  ou  mga
Tew
wit
ſpiris,
wt
EE  =  ntriirees
dnf
00nſci-
ence,  and"  ij"  dn  ths  boly  Giſt,"
514)  verſe'1  7;  Het  that  is  in
$5
Cby
not  know  him  in  mrs  but  bee  4.900
treatuve,  2.Car.3.17%
Gal  6.17:
prenr  nr  devorgs.  Foe
KS
the  leſt;  butche
conſcience  makes  to
£9
hewond;  which
or
TE  OEVt
