---
page: 16
pdf_page: 38
sortable_pagination_id: "16"
---
Chapt.
\  nl  Cormentarve
w/pon
36
ſceke  not  to  pleaſe  mengbut,ifriced
(ball  be,  |
will  denounce  curſes
gt
he
5.115
azainli  then),
Herefirlt  we  {:2the  proper  nature  of  the  Miniftery,which  is  not
the  word  or  docirineofman,
but  of  God,  By  this  the  Miniſters  of
the  Golpel  arc  taught  to  handletheirdocrinewith  modeſtie,  and  $
bumilitie,witiout  ollentation,with  reverence,  and  with  a  con(j-
deration.  of  the  maieſtieot  God  whoſe  the  dodtrine  is  which  they
vtter,that  God  rhay  begloribed,1.Per.4.11.
Secondly,  the  hearers  in  hearing  are  to  know  that  they  baue  to
deale  with  God:  and  that  they  areto  receivethedoRrine  taught  ,  ,
wot  45  the  word
of  mangbrt  as  the  ery  word  of  Ged,as  the  I  beilaloni-
ans  did,1.7h-f.2.13<,  Thewantof  thisconlideration,is  the  caule
that  ſome  contetmnethe  miniſtery  of  the  word,  as.  others  are  not
touched  and  mooued  in  beating.
Againe,  heere  is{et  downe  the
right  manner  of  diſpep  _—_  ”
word,  which  mult  pot  bee  for  the  plealing  of  menzbut  of
God,”
Henceita
es,that  Miniſters  of  the  Golpel  muftnot  bemen-
pleaſers,nor  apply  and  faſhion  their  doArine  to  the  atfecrops,hu-
morz,and  diſpolitions  of  men;  but  keep  a  good  conſcience,  and  do
their  office;  The\:Lord  tels  /eremie,bee  muſt  not  turnero  thepeople,  .
butthe  proplenm/t  querne  to  b1mgtere,  15,19,  Thus  God  ſball  bee  with
them,and  they  ſhall  briog  forth  much
fruite;
And  the  people  mult  know  it  to  bee  a  good  thing  for  them,not
fo  be  pleaſed  alwaies  by  their  Miniſters.
The  miniſtery  ofthe  word
muſt  beas  a  ſacrificing  knife,to  kill  &  mortife  the  old  Adawin  vs,  ,  .
that  we  may  live  vato  God.  A  licke  man  mull  not  alwaies  have  his
mind,but  he  mult  often
be  crotled;and  reſtrained  of  his  delire;and
ſo  mult  wethatare  (icke  ia  our  ſoules  in  reſpeR  of  our  linnes,  It  is
a  fault  therefore  of  men  that  deliceto'be  pleaſed,  and  tohave  mat-
ters  {moathed
over  of  their  Teachers,  T  his  is  Dawids  balme,which
he  wiſheth  "ay
never  be  wantingt0  his  head,P/a/,141,5.
.',  -
T  he  cad  of  this  verle  ſets  downea  memorableſeptence,T
hat  if
we  feek  topleale  men,we  cannot  bethe  ſervants  otGod,  Hence  ]
gatber,that  our  nature  is  full  of  rebellion,  &  enmitic  againlt  God,
becauſe  they  which
pleaſe  men,cannot  pleaſe  God,  Againehere  is  ,  5
-  -——
CUM
uRee
em
oo_—_
COTE
oO
{et  downe  what  is  the  hurt  that  comes  by  pride,and  ambition.  It
keepes  mep  that  they  cannot  bethe  feruauts  of  Chriſt,  Tee  belecrre
nor  (laith  Chill  )berarſe  ye
ſecke  glory
one  of  anther,  lob,  5.44.  Aombi-
tion  ſo  hls  the  mind  with  yanitie,6&  the  heart  with  worldly  delires,
thatit  cannot  thioke,  or  delire  to  pleaſe  God,  Wherefore  heethat  49
would  bea  faithtull  Miailter  of  the  Goſpel,mull  deny  the
pride  of
his  heart,  and  beeemprigg  of  ambition,and  ſet  him  clicw  oily
to
lecke
