---
page: 139
pdf_page: 161
---
147
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.3.
man  decaies,
the  inward  wan  ſhould  be  renewed.  I  ſpeake  all  this
the  rather,becauſe
aged  perſons  aremuch  wanting  in  this  duty.  For
nonecommonly  are  ſo  ignorant  inthe  things  of  God  as  they:  they
beginin
the  ſpirit,  but  the  affeRions  of  their  hearts  viſually
eadia
;  thelove  ofthis  preſentworld.  But  they  mult  bee  warned,  thatas
they  gee  before  others  in
age,  ſo  mull they  alſaexceedeinthe
cerptcheſhini  We  vietolay  of  children,  Ged  wake  them  good  old
wen  :  anditis
well  ſaid.  An  old man  is  to  be
regarded
;  but
ipeci
ro  Geed  et  ee  ge
then  tweotie  of
10  yonger
yeares.
Now
agedperſons
when  t
win  age,and
not
7  FA
ſriecbeyloſe  their  honour,  for  «ge  7  4
of  glory,  when  "
is
found  wm
the  way  of  right  conſues.
Prow,  16.3  1.Letthemtberefore
pray
with  D  awid,  Ferſake
me  not,  O  Lord,jin
mine  old  age.  Pſal.71  9.
is
4  Hance  ſuffered  ſo
many  things
in  waine  ?  if  ſo  beit
be
ONE
IHE  VAINE.
The  interrogation,  baxeye  ?  is  as  much  as,  ze  have,  Becaule  the
queſtion  in  this  place  counteruailes  a  ſpeech  affirmative,  Andthe
20  words.carriethis
ſenſe  :  Ye  baue  profetſed  the  Goſpel,and  ye  have
ſuffered  many  atflitious  for  the  ſame;  but  Bow  have
ye  reyolied
from  the  Galpe  cndchraieregtianorfermr  ſufferings
are  voide,
arin  vane
331
T  be  words  |  if  they
be  invaine]  area  limitation  or  qualificationof
25  that  which  wasſaid  before  :  and  they  carrie.  this  (eaſe:  Whereas  |
haucſaid  chat  your  ſufferings  areiavaiae  ,  tpeake  iegot  Gmply,
but  with  ſome  hopeat  yourrepentance:  whick
if  it
WE,  thenthat
"  which  would  bein  vaipe,tkaltaot  beip  vaine.
pro-
La  this  verſe,P
as  lars  doune  alecond  realon,to
30  politionof  bis  fic{targumeot,on
this  manner:  1f  ye  receiuedthe
ir  it  by  my  doArine;thenismy  dactirivertruc,  aud  ye  toglesinre-
voltiog  from  it;  For  by  this  acanesthethings  which  youſlaffered
well;yenow  (uffenin  yaines
ot
4:
T  bevie,  When  P  av({aiths
Hare  yes  ffrred,
oe.  be  lignifies  vato
35  vstheeſtateand:  condition  ef  all  beleeuers  in  this  life,  that  they
muſte  be  bearers  2nd  ſufferers.  The  reaſon,  Ta  thisure  wecalled,
1.Pe3.2.21,for  wearecalled  torefigne  all  cevergeto'God,&  there-
foreof
our  ſcluesto  be.  bearers  and  ſufferers,  fith.s:  39.  Reſiſt  nor
ewill,  And  we  are  Called  toimitate  thepalligniot
Chriſt,  who  ſutte-
49  red
heeingianocent,and  being  regiled,  reailed  not  againe.  More-
-/»  Quer,
it  ibfur  Our  good  that  we  ſhould  bearcand
ſuffer.  1,  Pep.  1.  G,
abdP/al.
44  9174.  [tay  be  demanded,  \Vhatifimy  caulebegood
toad
Annu}
molt
