---
page: 140
pdf_page: 162
---
Chap.z.
A  Commentarie
ypon
len  rake  tefrdrberffr  fer
pofric;thebetiergh
are
rightroufner,
COme
$.2,Cor.11.13.A-
matoadeoik
==  oy  he
bedemanded,  how  long  we  muſt  ſuffer?  An/.  Euen
to
the  ſhedding  of  our  blood,  if  itbee  forthereſitingoflinoe,  Heb,  ,
12.4.  Laltly,ic  may  be  ſaide,how  ſhall  we  be  ableto  doe  this?  Auf,  *
God  us  fanthfull,  and  will  not  4
TITS  rs
Cor.10.3.By  thisweare
n6t  to  makeareckoning  in  +
this  world,  bf  eaſures  and
delights,  as
though
the  Goſpel  were
a  Goſpel
of  caſe,  and  as  wevieto
lay,  a  G  aberatng  but  *
Ar
rs
a  en.  s
If  thaw  mk  ®
my
thy
(elfe
#:  that
is,
the  particular
affli  io  aedeielh  et  -  Ama  Agaive,  if  in
this
world  we  mult  be  ſufferers
by  condition,  then  in  dilſentions,  and
differences,wemay  neither  jo:  nortake  thechalenge,  but  muſt
be  content  to  beare
and  put  vp  wropgs,and  abuſes.  Laſtly,in  theſe  's
daies  of  our  peace,
we  mult  looke  for  daics  of  triall  and  afflition,
vel  ofthe  Lond  hath  bi  umoog  removethen  fouryyearethes
-  ue
bin
fore(nodoubt)the  timeofthrethio
aan
ſaid,we  nay  be  good  bread
to  rhe  Lord  od  that
beable  to
for  the  name
of  God,  wee  mult  pray  for
thisgi  at  Gods  hand.  For  power  toſufferis  the  gift
of
l,
29.  and  we  muſt  obſerve  the  commandement  ot  God,  mand
—  Rem.  _  .2,Pet.  13
.14.  And  OCEITY
(as  Peter
antlifie  God  in  ony  «r1;\:becing  al  ured  by  our
ofcdepreBaogrrtiooand  rote
=»  nr
VVen  Pax!
ane  yer
ſuſſered,  nm  bing:  ?  heſhewes
ts
nt
"*
Ld
that  Iu  muſt  cador
rar
Lacob  (aide
Zi
to  P
»  His  dayes  were  fewe
ewill.  Many
are  the  affiitts.  5
ons
__  the
i  Eves.
»  P/alme  34.20,  Chriſt  Gith,  Take
prhyonſ
9.23.  CT
nd  n=  »  that  every  new
be  ouer  our  heades,
for  a  newe
Oe  An  fo
this  cauſe,  it  is  not  enough  tobeepatient  for
aft
but  we  roomy  patience,and
long  ſuffering  ,  and  that  with  ,,
1.12
When  Paw  ſaith  ,  Hae
ye  fo
ſo  many  things  in  vaine?  bell
vle,
our  ſinnes
nifies,
that  our
hinderance.  Itmay
bode  tded  winds
is  the  vie  of  our  {uffe-
rings?  The  Papiſts  anſwer,that  in  our
or  firſt  converſion  ©
Chnſtſafferings
doe  all  :  and  aboliſhthe
whole  faule  and
ment\:bat  ifwe  linge  after  our  converſion,
then,  lay  they,
