---
page: 165
pdf_page: 187
sortable_pagination_id: "165"
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.
3.
—_
ok  chars  areto  nr  hr  har  emer
Allare  curſed,laith  the  law,that  doe  not  continae
pardon,  and
be  re-
todoeall  things  written  therein,
5  Gene  by
CIncud  te  Glgl  Andehn  raul  the
qualification,  from  the
on"  «limitation  or
vine,  inthat  Chriſt  bath  redeemed
vs  from  the  curſe  of  the
ED  dence  Le  ndaet  oem
an
over  vs
it  we
whaprice,  Andforthiscauſe,
we  mult
any  euill  ouermucts,:  a  the  reviliogs,
TS  witchcratt,the
the{word,or  death,  Forthe  curſe  which
makesalltheſe,and  many
1  5  otber  chings  burttull  vato  vs,  is  remooued:  from:  them
that  are  in
Chriſt.
And  therefore  all  immoderate
feare  ſhould  be  reſtrained.
;  Thirdly,  ourduticis,  toglorifie
God  and  Chrilt,  who  batbre-,
deemed  vs,  andthat  both  in  bodie  and  foule.  The  redeemed  mult
live  according  to  the  will  of  their  redeemer.  2.  Cor.
6.  verſe  20.
20  This  is  allthe  thankfulneile  that  we  can  ſhew  £0  our  Redeemer
for his  mercie.
Free  berean  obieion  made  by  ſome  ,  may  be  aniivered.  It
they)  we  were  redeemed
by  Chrilt,  beeing  captives
to  the di-
br  iprarniger  our  Redemption  was  paid
to  bim  ,  and  not  to
25  God.  Anſw.  ocrptmegaamipeocie  inflentiodinee
law,to  the  order  whereot  we  (tand  {ubicdt  :
and
by  thismeanes
we
are  captives  tothe  curſe ofthe  law,  and  conſequently
to  the  divel!,
whois  the  miniſler  of
God.for  the
Execution  ofthe  faideurke.  And
beiog  captiuestothe
diuell,no  otherwiſe  then  as  he  is  the  miniſter
30  of  God,  for the  infliting
of  puniſhment:  the  price  mult  not  bee
paidetobim  ,  but  toGod  ,  wogonhagtnogalls  and  bath  a  ſoue-
Ny  tne  wg
comenowtothe  formaof  our  Redemption  ,  Who  was  made  4
curſe
for v1.  For  the  better  voderſlanding  of  thele  words,  foure
35  pom  areto  be  bandled.
The  fir(tis,what  isthis  curſe?
An/.A  dou-  *
ble  deaths  thefelt  ofthe  badie,the  ſecond  of  the  foyle.  T  he  brit
is,
pen  ehobeliorndioate  The  ſecond  is;the  ſeparation
I  Conyers
of  the  w
pentiotarbatpodedy  vaiuerlall
40  Irom  aim
od
their  God.  dndebla  ca  ieaaeaten
fe  beta  badoys  AA
*  Fm  OY
