---
page: 167
pdf_page: 189
sortable_pagination_id: "167"
---
v7
the  Epiſtieve  the  Galatians.
S.
175
\:t  4
and  clottered  blood;  by  bis  complaint  that  he  was  forſaken
the
foares  and  ſorrowesia  thetime  of  death,  in  which  becomes
iobwongt  ns
that  beindured  farther
death  then cuer  they  did:  by  his  condition
,  ia  that  hee
5  ces  him  the  condition
of  the  firſt  1daw  ,  who
rethe  ficſt  and  ſeconddeath.  Heretwo
bademanded  :  thefirſt,  How  andinwhat  nunner  Chit  fOhred
—_——
willingly
of  his  owne  accord:
anion  9  mW  butalſo  he  felt  it  :
\—  erlaidndiopoſedon  him,  and
be
incountred
with  it  :  but
it
©  2d  nodominionor
him,  42.  2.24.  The  ſecond
is,
How  much  he  ſuffered  of  the  wrath  of  God?  Af.  The
puniſhment
he  ſuffered
was  in  value  and  meaſure  anſwerable
to  all  the  linnes,
»  and  tocome  :  theGodhead  fuppor-
of  all  the  Ele  paſt  ,
1;  tingthe  manhood,  t  atic  might  be
abletobeare,  and  ouercome
"7  thewhole  burden  ofthe  wrath  of  God.  It  it
be  ſaid,that  a  creature
cannot  hane  an  infinite
fionot
the  wrath  of  God  2  1  an-
it  ſofficeth  that
id  infinite  wrath  vpon  him  ,  and  that
Seincoonred  wk
the  condition  of  a  creature.  For  in
the  whole  urathot  I
ſupported  by  the  Cote  h  bevethe
ſtretleofthe  whole  wrath  of
?  Agziaſdhis  doaQrine,  ſundry  things  may  beobieQted.
Ohre.1,  TheScriptoreaſcribesallto
the  blood  of  Chriſt,  and
25
thereforetothe
death  ofthe  bodie.  4»f.  By  bload,is  meant  a  bloo-
die  denth:  by  the  bloodie  death,  the  death  of  tbecrodde:  by  the
death  of  thecroſſe,  a  deathaccurſed,
orthe  death  of  the  bodice,  ioy-
ned  with  the  malediQtion  of  thelaw.
30
Obieft:[7,  Theſufecring  of  theaogerof  God  was  not
Sacraments
or  Sacrifices.  «Lf.  T  he  2—Jarman  oy  9
riog  wasmade
,  was  firſt  tiedto  thehornes
of  the  altar  :  bis  blood
then  was  ſhed:  and  laſtly  hee  was  all  burnt  vpon  the  altarvnro
God  :  and  hereby
was  figured
the  ferie wrath  of  God,  +»
35
Obie.  If.  Temporalldeatb,orthe  curſe  for  halfe  aday,
can-
not.counteruaile  eternall  death.  An/w,  Yey,in  Chriſt.  For  if  man
cov!d  ſuffer  and  overcome
puniſkment  in  meaſure  inhnice
,  hee
ſhould  notſoffer  eternally  :  but  this  no  man nor  Angel  can doe  -
and  thereforeman  muſt  ſaffer
t  for  mealvre  finite  ,  fos
40  timeinfinite:  becaule  the  poni
tmult  bean(werableto
God,
whoſtmaieſtic  isinfnite.  Now  Chritt  being  God  and  man,  lulfe-
red
Jpunilhment  indeedeinfinite\:andthereforeit  —
