---
page: 168
pdf_page: 190
sortable_pagination_id: "168"
---
&-
|  4  Conmentarieupon
167
hat
tice  ſhould  indureit  eternally,
Againebere
the
dignitie  of  the
perſon  helpeth  :  for  in  that  ir  Air  ys  gee  of
thelaw  for  balfea  day,  itis  more  theo  ifall  men  bad  ſuffered  erer.
nalldeath.
T  hereforethe  death  of  Chriſtin
reſpe  of  the  meaſure
of  thepuviſhment,  as  alſoinreſpeR  ofthe  valueand  dignitie  ther.  5
of,counteruailes  deathreverlaſhog.:
Es-
Obieft.1  V.1t  is  hard  to  ſay;that  Chriſt  ſuffered  the  paines  of  hell
Anſw.T  heLatin  tranſlation  (commonly  receiued,  )  hath  asmuch,
that  be  conldner  be  holds  of  the  ſorrows  of  bel,  Ai.2,24.And  there  isno
offence
to  lay;  he  ſuffered  the  painegpt  bell,-  ſo  tarre  forth  aschis  10
no  may  ſtaud  with  thepuritic
of  his  manhood,
aud  withthe
truth
the
onall  vnion.
T  he  vſe.Friersteach,
that  if  Chriſt  hadpricked
his  finger,  and
let  fall  but  onedroppe  of  blood,it  had  bio  ſuthcient  to  redeemeall
the  world.  Buttheydreame.  For  Paw/ſaith,  bee  was  made
the  curſe  15
of  the  aw,  to  1....ceme  vi,
T  his  had  bina  needletle  workzifa  prickein
_y
finger,  or  any  puniſhment  without  death,  would  have  done
the
deede.
T  hat  Chriſt  becamea  curſe  for  vs,it  ſhewes  the  greatoelle  and  *
horriblenes
ofour  linnes,  it  ſhewes
the  grieuous  hardnelle  of  our  ©
hearts,that
neuer  almoſt  mourne  for  them\:it
(bews  the  v
ble  loue  and  mercy  of  God,  for  which  weare  to  bee
ever,and  that  all  manger  of  waies.
[a  that  the  Sonne  of  God  became  a  curſe  for  our  linnes,  we
putio  minde,  to  ſee,
,  andcon(ider  then,  and  with-  5*
all
to  bewaile  ther,andto
ourſelues
for  them\:andtode-
teſt  them  more  and  more,  vato  the  very  death.  For  what
is  more
worthie
of  hatred  ,  then that  which  cauſeth  the  Sonne  of  God  to
beaccurſed,  They  which  belecue  that  Chrit
by.  beeing  a  curſe
mm  Ie  mer
law,  doe  intruth  die  3*
vnto
ir  linnes,
vnto
Many  indeedeprofelling
Chriſt,  makeno
ifeatall;
andthe reaſon  is,  -becaule  a
ſecret  Atheiſme  makes  them  fay  in  their  bearts,  There  i  no  Chrit,
there  is  no  curſe,  that  was  endured  by  Chriſt.  Clenſe  your  bearts  of  this  .
bidden  Atheiſme  ,  and  looke  that  inwardly  io  your  ſpirits,  youdie  *
vato  your  linnes,and  live  to  God.
oy
la  that  Chriſt  was  obedient  to  his  Fatherin  bearing  the  curſe
the  law,  weare
inall  chingstoſubic  ourſclues  to  the  v
of  God.  Our
mult
not  onely  bee  in  doing  this  or  that,
bucalſoin  ſuffering  the  miſcries  laid  on  ys  tothe  death  :  thisis  the  49
beſt  obedience  of  all,andche  truelt  marke  of  Gods  child,  to  obey
in  ourlutteriogs.
FETLC4
Moreover,
