---
page: 169
pdf_page: 191
sortable_pagination_id: "169"
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.3  *
197
Moreover  ,that  Chriſt  was  accurſed,  it  is  confirmed  by  the  ſen-
tence  and  decree  of  God:  Curſed  is  exery  one  that  hangeth  onthe  tree,
Dewt,t  r,  23.  The
dofthis  ſentenee  is  the  ſionne  of  the  male-
facour\:for  whom
God  curſeth,  bee  curſeth  for  his  offence.  And
5  hereit  maybee  demanded,  why  he  that  is  ſtoned
to  death  is  not
likewiſe  accuſed?  A»{.Hee  alſoisaccurled  :  but  there  are  ſpeciall
reaſons  why  the  man  hanged  on  the  tree  is  curſed.  Firſt,  among  the
lewes,  they  which  were  hanged,  were  moſt  grievous  malefa-
1g  Fours,  as  blaſphemers,  and  idolatours
:  and  their  puniſh-
ment  was  accordingly,molt  grievous.  Secondly,  hanging(as  among
all  nations  ,ſo  among  the  lewes)  wasa  moſt  odious,  and  infamous
death.  Thirdly,
God
did  foreſee  that  the  Meſlias  ould  die  on
the  crolle,  and  therefore  he  accurſed  this  kinde  of  death.  Ifit  bee
ſayd,thatthere  was  no  fault  or  offence  in  Chriſt  ;  and  therefore  he
is
could  not  bee  accurſed  :  I  anſwer,that  hee  became  inne  for  vs,  in
chat  our  (ſinne  was  applied  and  imputed  to  him.  [t  may  bee  further
obieed,that  the  theefe  which  repented,
was  not  accurſed,though
he  were  hanged  on  the  tree.  A»/;  As  atheefe,
he  was  accurſed;as  he
was  a  theefe,  and  repented,  the  carſe  was  remooued.  Forthe  lawe
79  ;nthe  courſes  thereot,giues  place  to  the  Goſpel:  iudgment  yeeldsto
merey\:and  the  ——_—  exception  to  the  law.
Thevſe.[fthe
r  hanged,  beaccurſed,  anddefile  the
earth\:how  vile  and  accurſed  is  the  living  malefaRour;  the  blafphe-
mer,  adulterer,  murtherer;6&c.who  hath  entred  no  degree  of  pu-
i5  niſhment?
Let  this  be  conlidered;to  terrifie  offenders.
Againe,  let  vscon(ider  the  ſcope  ofthis  law,  -
Becauſe  he  that
onethetree,  isaccurſed:  therefore  faith  the  law  of  God,  hee
muſt  be  tabin  downe,  and  buried.  Marke  the  equity  ofthe  law\:and  that
isthat  things  evill  and  accurſed,  are  to  beremooued  from  theeye
39  andſcnſcot  man,  Thischarge  the  Lord  gives  of  lefe  matters,
namely,of
lights  vndecent,  and  vnſcemely.  Dext.  23.15,  Againe,
wearecommanded
not  ſo  rmach-as  to  name  Forrlcarion,oatiine.
nes,  covetoylaes,  ie{ting  ,fooliſh-cralking;&&Fpb.5.3.  Herewe  are
tobe  pat  in  minde,  thar  ths  Plaies  (commonly  in  vie  Jare
to  be  ba-
|  39  niſhed  ontofall  Chriſtian  ſocieties.  Forthey  doe  nothing  elſe  but
revive  and  reprefent
the  vile  and  wicked  faſhions
ofthe  world,and
the  miſdemeanour  of
eaen;whichare  thinks  accurſed,and  therfore
to  be  buried;and  notonce
ts  beſpoken
of:  vpn  evillin  our
example,  whetherir)  word,
or  indeede,  muſt  bee  buried,as  much
40  as  may  be\:for  itdebileth,and  is  accurſed,
acemr/ed,
Here  it  may  bee  demanded,  how  this  law  of  God,(be  is
therefore  let  bim}  bee  taken  downe,  and  buried)  (tandes  with  -  _
order
