---
page: 17
pdf_page: 17
---
the  Epiſtle
ations.
Chap.1.
Laflly,fecingit  is  the
_S  becalled  imme-
diatly  by  leſus  Chriſt,  henceit  followes,  that  the  authoritcie,office,
and  function
of  Apoltlesceaſed'
with  thern,  and  did  rot  paſſe  by
ſucceſſion  to  any  otber.  Therefore  it  is  x  falſhood  that  the  Pope
of
5  Rome  ſucceeds
Peter  in  A
authoritie,
and  in  the  infalli-
blea(liftance
of  the  ſpirit,when  heisin  his
Cooſiſtory.
And  where  Pax!
faith
he  was  called
by  ns
man,that  is,meere  man,he
givesa
pregnant  teſtimony  that
is  both-Godand
man
$21
jo
And  whereas
Pa!  was  called  by  Chtiftraiſed
from  the  dead,
hence  |  gatherthedignitie
of  the  Apoltle  Pa»  aboueall  other  A-
png  thathe
was  called  after  the  refurreRion  of  Chriftwhen
was  centred  into  higkiogdome,  nh
15
2..  And  alt  the  brethres.  that  are  with  mee,  to  the  Churches
of  Galatia.
The  Expoſition.
By  brethren  wee  are  to  vaderſtand
ſuch  as  ſeparated  themſclues
26.  fromthe
faichot  Chaiſl,
»;  Cor.
5.11  And
heere  more
ſpecially  furrhas  tavugbtand  profeſſed  the  faith,
that  is,
bath  Paſtorsand  people,  whether  of  Antioch(as  ſamethipke)  or
of  Rome,
as  others.
And
Paw  writes  his  Epiſtle  as  well  in  their  names  as  in  his
2;  _  _—  their  coaſent,
for  two  cauſes,  One  won
mighe  not  beochowghe  0  deli
ne  oth
his  owne  head.  adbepeteindos  :  and  thertore  tavght
nothing  but  that  which  was  in  the  writmgs  of  Moſes  and  the  Prophets,
Altes  26.22.  And  this  was  the  careot  Chriſt:  who  faith  ,  ſy
3  deftrine  is  not  nunebut  higthat  ſeut  me,1ob,7.15;  Andat  this  day,th's
mult  be  thecare
of  the  Miniſters
of  the  Goſpel,to  delivernothing
of  theirowne,  Firlt  therefore  their  doQrines
muſt  be  founded  in
the  writings  ofthe  Prophets
and  Apoſtles  :  and  ſecondly,tbatthey
may  beſureof  this,they  mult  have  the  conſent  of  the  trove  Chorch,
;  5  {pecially  of  fuch  as  have  beenethe  reſtorers  of  the  Goſpell  io  this
laſ}  age.  This  role  Pax!  givesto  Timorhie,  ts  continue  in  the  things
which
be  bad  /rer»edof  Pax/  and  therelt  of  the  Apoſtles,  2.  7\:m.3.
14.  Henceitappearesto
be  afaultin  fundry  private  perſons,  when
they  readethe  Scriptures,  togather  private  opinions,  to  broach
40  {bem  to  theworld.  This  practiſe  hath  beenethe  foundation  of  be-
refiesand  ſchilmes  jnthe  Church.
Secondly,  Pax!  writes  with  conſent
that  hee  might  chebetter
mooue
