---
page: 148
pdf_page: 170
---
Chap.3.
A  Commentarie
pou
belecving  the  foreſaid  promiſe,  receives
them  of  God  as  his  chil-
dren.1n  this  regard  beleevers  are  called  chu/dren  of  the  promiſe,  Rom.
9.8.and  the
ſeede;that  is,of  the  faith  of  Abrabaw,  Rom.  4.  16.  Now
jr  erm  IR  [e  may  befaid,
$.
d,w
It
children  of  A
the
ciſed,are
is  this?  Au{(Great:  mo  Sagem
meer
mrs
covenant,  12.3.25.and  children  of  God,  Row.9  8.
Thevſe.  la  this  verſe,  Paul  ſets  tory
,  the
of
troe  marke  of  the  child  of
that
Abraham.  Herethen  marke,firlt  of  allthe  lewes;though  deſcending  19
ing
of  /(aac,  are  no  children  of  Abrahem,becauſe  they  follow.  not  the
faith  of  Abraham.  Secondly,  the  Turks  are  no  children,
they  plead  deſcent  from  Ager  ſometimes,and  ſometime
from  Sars,
tearming  themſclues  Agarens,  and  Saracens,  For  they  tread  vnder
foote  the  faith  of  -A5rabaw.  Thirdly,  the  Papilt  will
nothing
'5
helpe  himſelfe  by  the  plea  of  Antiquity,Suceeſſion,and
conſent,  except  he  can  ſhew  ſome  good  evidence,  that  heis
of
the  faith  of  «Lbr«bam,  which  he  cannot.  For  this  faith  he  hath
corrupted,
as  |  haue  ſhewed.  Laſtly,  our  profeſſion  of  Abrabowe
faith,partly  in  totchingand  partly  in  heariog,and  in  the  vic  of  the  29
Sacraments;  is  netufticienttoprooue
vs  thechildren  of  Abraham,
For  wor  every  one  that  [aith-Lord,  Lord,  ſpall  emer  mtothe  Kingdome  of
heanen,  Math.7,11:;
Therefore  we  mult  labour  to  beindeedandin
truth  of  the  faith
of  Abrabem,  andto  walkein  the  ſteppes  of  his  faith.  And
to  this  *5
end,we  mult  doe  three  thrings.  Firſt,
we  muſt  have  koowledge  of
the  maine  and  principall  promiſe,touching  thebleſſing  of  God  in
Chrilt,and  of  all  other  promiſes  depending
on  the  principall  :  and
w2  mult  know  the  ſcope  and  tenour  of  then,  that  we  be  not  de-
ceived.  Secondly,we  mult  with  eLFirabem  belceue  the  power,and  30
truth  of  God,  inthe  accompliſhing
of  the  {aid  promiſes,  or  iatbe
working
of  our  vocation,iulhification,  ſanRification,
gjori
Rom.4.21.  Thirdly,we  muſt  by  faith  obey  Godin  ng
t\:ag  our  eyes,  and  (offering  our  ſclues(a3  it  were)to  be  led
blind-
fold,by  the  word  of  God,  Thus  did  Abrebamin  all  things,cuen  in  35
ations  againſt  nature;  Heb.  11.8  But  this
ſe
is  rare  among  Vs,
For  thereare  threetbings,  which  prevaile  much  among  vs,  the
loue  of  worldly  honour,the  loue  of  pleaturcy  and  the  love  of
riches  :  and  where  theſe  beare  a  ſway,there  frith  takes  no  place  It
will  beſaid,tbat  faith  is  much  profeſſed,  An/.Faith  was  neucr  more  40
profeſſed,  yet  there  was  never  le(le  truc
faith.  For  the  commen
faith
of  a1eo;
is  a  falk  faith,  For
in  ſorae,  it  is  concciued  many
