---
page: 149
pdf_page: 171
---
the  Epiflle
12  he  Gall,
Chap.3.
the  meanes  ofthe
|  7  _  in  others,it  is  ſe-
uered
ale
ot  not  (inning.
Now
faith
conceiued  with-
outthetrue  meanes,  .and  faith  ioyned  with  the  purpoleto  live  as
welilh,
isi
butpreſumption,  And  ſurely,  this
is  the  faith,
gs  thoughnotof  Wen  ihe  mol},
Moreouer,
which  Pax/  hath  faid  of  the  children  of  A5r«-
bam,he  prooues  by  the  teſtimony
ofthe  Galatians,in  theſe  words,
K  now  ye  therefore,or  ye  know  :  that  is;vpontbe  ſaying  of  Moſes  in  the
former  verſe,  ye  yourlelues  know  this  to  be  atruth,  which  1  ſaid.
26  Marke  here,  Pas/  requires  {och  a  meaſure  of  knowledge  in  belee-
vers;that  they  mult  be  able  to  iudge  of  the  gathering  of  this
or  that
doarine,out
of  this  or  that  hctSnianenT  bickencechincn:
tempt
of  knowledgein  theie  our  dayes  to  be  great
:  formolt  men
reie@t  the  I
and  content  themſclues  with
teaching,and
15  the
iog
ofnature.
8.  For  the  Scripture  fore-ſeeing
that  God  would  inſtifie  the
Gentiles  through  faith  preached  before  the  Goſpell  unto  Abra-
ham,  ſaying,In  thee  ſhall  all  the  Gentiles  be  bleſſed.
20  Fl
bY  then  hey  which  are  of  faith
are  bleſſed  with  faithfull
Agaialt  the  argument  in  the  two  former  verſes,a  doubt,  or  ex-
ceptioa  might
be  mooued,on  this  manner.  We  grant,  that  they
25  which  arc  of  the  faith  of  Abraham,  arciultified  as he  was,
ſo  they
be  lewes,and
not  Gentiles.
Now  this  duubt,exception,or  obiei-
on,  Pas!  remooues  in  theſe  verſes,thus,  When  God  ſaid  to  Abre-
hamy/n  thee  ſhall  alltbe  Gentiles  be  bleſſed  ;  be  (lignihed  the  iultificati-
on  even  ofthe  Gentiles  by  taith  :  therefore  all  that  arcof  faith,cuen
20  the  Gentiles,are  bleſſed  of  God,as  Abraham  was,
[nthe.verſe,!  conlider  chreethiogs:  the  accalionofthe  ſpeech
of  Godto
Abrabem,namely,Go4'  fore-knowledge  :
the  manner  of  bis
the  pred#tany
of  the  Goſpel  to  Abrahaw:  and  theteſtimony  it
elte,Inthee,cs  c.
35
Touching  theoccalioo  ;  hiſt  it  may  be  demanded,  whether  this
fore-knowledge  in  God,  be  a  bare  tore-knowledge,  feucred  from
the  willof  God,  or  no.  A»/w.  No:  Gods  fore-knowledge  is  in  all
things  ioyned  with  his  decrce,  or  will.  If  God  ſhould  fore-{ce
things  to  come,  ard  in  no  ſort  will  or  nill  chew,  there  (ſhould
40  be  an-idle  providence,  Chriſt  was:  delivered  by  the  will  and  fore-
hnowledge  cf  Gol,  Ath.2  23,  And  the  lewes  for  their  parts  did  norhing
in  thecrucitying  of  Chriſt,  but  that  which  the  hand,  and  counjell  £4
L  4
ror
