---
page: 152
pdf_page: 174
---
A  Commentaric  vp0u
Chap-3-
160
effect  andſubſtance  oneand  the  ſame  with  verſe  pacdie  (aotiek
that
all  men  that
be  of  Abrabemi
faith,  (though  otberwile
forrai.
of  the  ſame  bleſ.
ners  and  Gentiles  to  Abrehem)  (hall  be
ſing  of  God  with him.  It  may  beſaid  :
ow  ſhall  we  have  the  ame
w,  God  reſpets
not  5
bleſſing,when  we  haue  not  thelikefaith  ?
-the  greatnelſe  of  our  faith;ſomuch
asthe truth  of  it,
'  And  if  faith
erreoot  in  his  obie&  »that'  is,  if  we  make
Cheilt  crucified
vur  Re-
deemer
eo  him  \:ifchere
a  will
to  be-
lecue,  andto  apprehend
with  —
creaſe
in  faith,and  a  purpoſenotto  (inne,God  will  accept  this  true  v
and  honeſt  will  for  deed.
Io  For  45  many  us  bee  of  the  workes  of  the  law,  are  -onder
the  curſe,  For  it is  written,Curſed
is  enery  one  that  continues  nt
in  all  things  written  in  the Law  to  doe  them.
In  theſe  wordes  Pax!  ſets  downe  wr  ana
not  only  the  [ewes,  but  alſo  the  Gentiles,  are
as  Abrabamwas,by
faith.  Andthe  reaſon  is  drawne  from  the  can-
caluplas  thorn
heburobe  Hog
vnder  the  curſe.  T  herefore,they  that  areof
faith,are
Cited  with  1brabam,  Moreouer,”  «n/addes  the  proofe
ofthis ſecond  reaſon  in  the  next  words,and  it  is  framed  thus:  ]
which  fulkll  not  the  law,arecurſed  «  they  which  are  of  works
notthe  law  :  thereforethey  are  accurſed.
25
Whereas  Paw/  ſaith  ,
chat  they  are  vader
the  carſe,
that  milbeeef
.  worker,  wee  ſee  the  whole  world  almoſt,  walkes  in  the way  of  p
_  ITT  Wn
oe
workes.
young  Prince  inthe  Goſpel,
mt  Hand  ae
bſecs  The  Jews  Te
ey
30
wftice  of  G
ritabliſhed
their
owne  righteon
myers
and  charts
es  ot  bee  ſaued  by
faith
TnR—_
eto
aith-:
their  faithto  workes.  For  whatis
their  faith  ?
mocking  of
untgeedemmagartintgneeubeg  ey
(as
3s
by  theblood  of  Chriſt.  And  this  makes  the  Papiſtesin  the  day  of
death,torenounce  iuſltifieation  by  their  workes.  Stewey  Gr.
ao
