---
page: 175
pdf_page: 197
sortable_pagination_id: "175"
---
183
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap.  J-
niltreth  the  Lords
vader
one  kiod?  Asſ.  They  finneagain(t
the  light  of  nature,  which  teacheth  vs  not  to  abrogate  the  teſta-
atarefaameckieds  the  teſtamenc  of  God.  tis  alleadged  that
wereceive  whole  Chriſt  vader  the one  kind.  A»f;  True  indeed.
Bur
5  En
niques:
ſet  perfeR  novriſhment,in,and
by  Chrilt  :  now  perfeR  nouriſh-
mentisnotin  __  new  bread&  wine\:and
by  them  both
ioyned  together,is  (ignified,that  Chrilt  is  the  bread  and  the  wa-
terof  life\:now  to
ms  __  co  aboliſh
the  principall  vie
10  of  the  facrament,andtoleſſen  our  comfort.
.  1  Inthe  16.verſe
Paw!  faith,  the  promeſes  were  made  ro  Abraham,
in  the  plurall  number  :  becauſethey
were  ſometimemade  to  A-
braham,  ſomnetimeto
his  ſcede,  and  lometimeto  both  :  and  they
were  often
to  Abraham,and  theretore
are  called
5  wy  6  ſubRance  they  arebut  one.  T  heſeede
of  Abrabam
mentioned,  isthe  ſecede
not  ofthe  fleſh,
but  ofthe  promiſe,
-_
9.7  and  this  ſeed
is  firſt  Chriſt  lefus,and  then  all  that  beleeue
in  Chritt.  For  al  theſe  are  given  to  Abraham  as  children  by  the  pro-
miſe
&  Eleion  of  God.  Moreouer,  this ſeed  is  notmany,(as  Pan!
2  9bſerueth)batone:  that  is,  oneinnumber.  It  is  obieted;that  the
**  pord{ſeedJis  aname  col/eftine,and  Fgaities  the  whole  poſteritic
of  Abrabaw,  Anf,  It  doth  ſometime,bur  not  alwaies:  Gr  Exe  ſaith
of  Serh,God  bath  ginewme  an  other  ſeede,Gen.4.25,  thatis,  another
25  ſonne.
Laſtly,
it  is  (aid,  that  this  one  particular  ſeede  of  Abrabans
isChri  [eſos.  Here  by
the  name  Chriſt,”  frltand  principally  the
Mediatour  is  meant.and  then  ſecondly  all  lewesand  Gentiles  be-
are  ſet  and  grafted  into  Chriſt  by  their  faith.  For  Paul
30  faith,  Row.  9.8.cbar  mann  FE.  orybe  childrenef  the  pr  onnſe,are
the  ſeeds  of  Abrabam\:againe,Gal.3.19.They  which  are  of  Clrifve  the
flee  Aram,
Ar  ron  ana  re  ifes  not  onely  the  head
Godand  man,  but  alſo  theC
Church  gathered
partly
eflewemdpcndyef  Gender  The  body(faith  Pani)  it  one,but
the
members
are  many  \:enen
(6 is  Chritt,  1,Cor,11.12.thatis,  the  Church
35  of  Chriſt,  Againe,/  beare
in  my  body  the  remamder:
of  the  ſuſfermys  of
Chrif,Col.1,24.and  the  Church  is  called  the  complement  of  Chriſt.
Epb.1.23.1t  may  be  obiced;that
by  this  meanestheſecde
of 4-
brahaw,is  many,
and  not  one  :  s.n  A
Chriſt  andall  belecuersare
the  (cede.  An/.  They  are  alloneinreſpeR  of  one  and  the  ſameblel-
40  liog  of  God,which  is  firſt  given  to  Chriſt,and  by  Chriſto  all  that
belecue  in  him.
A//  are  ones  Chriſt,  Gal.  3.28,  a0d  be  gathers
1b  ings  1
brawen  and  earth  into  one  bead  Eph.  1.  _
it
