---
page: 176
pdf_page: 198
sortable_pagination_id: "176"
---
Chapi3
A  Conmentarie
opon
It  is  here  tobe  oblerved;thatthe
madeto  Abrabeware
firt  made  to  Chriſt,  and  then
in
Chriſtto
all  that  belceve  inhim,
be  en  me  bis  Concluſion  is  of  el
it  we
the  difference  of  the  promiſes  of  the  law  and  the.
|  nom  promiſes  of  the  law,are  direRecd  and  madetothe
|  tn  nem
{es  ofthe  Goſpel  are  yk
to  Chril
hen  by  conſequent,  to  them  that
faithi
,  by
thiswe  learne  to  acknowledge  the  communion
thatis  betweene  Chriſtand
ys,  Cheiſt  as  Motiatountefiſtafal  2
eleRed;  and  wee  in  him  :  Chriſt
is
firſt  jultibed,that
is,  acquit  of
we
our  finnes,and  weiuſtified  in  him  :  :  heis  heire  ofthe  world,and
heires  in  him\:bedied
vpon  tbe  cro(le,not
as  aprivate
but
as  RE  repreſenting  all  the  EleR,and
all  the  Ele&  died
ich  him.  [n  theſame  mannerthbey  riſe  with  dingolh,
bo,
and  ſit  at
the  right  dand  of
God  with  bim  in  glocy-
T  hirdly  here  weſcethegroond
of  the  Certeoty  of
of  allthem  that  are  the  true  children  of  God.  For  the  office
of
Chriſt  towbich  he  is  ſet  apart,  is  to  receiaethe  promiſe  of  God  for
ned  mmm  Chriſt  with.  **
out  i
and  witbou
part;Theſeale  &
foundation  ofourſaluation  is  this,  ther  God
etroprrand  hin
vs  for  his,  2.7im.2.19,  andthat  whichconcernes  vs  is,  that  we
muſt  worſhippe  Godin  Spirit  and  —_  and  depart  from:  ini  »
vitie.
.  Lalthereiecomfort  pinſchec
the
conſideration  of
our  vows:
andy
agrees  daft  thou
exet-
therefore  that
no
ciſe  thy  {clfe  io  the
Lay
againe
of  faith,  m—__  7"
2  thou.muſt
not  receive  the
pentance?  be  notdi
immediately  of  God,but  Chriſt  muſt  doeit  forthes.  Though  thay.
be  vaworthy,  yet  there  i
and  worthinceſufficientin
him.
If  thou  ſay,  ncedevared
the  leaſt  receivethbe
rojo
handot  Chriſt:  I  adde  further;thathe  wi/l  not  quench  the  be  flaxe
that
doth  but  ſimoake  neither  will  be
breaks  the
braiſed  reeds.  Heaccepts  the  3
weake  apprebenſion;it  it  beintruth..  And  our  faluation.(tands
in
this,  not  that  we  know  ard  appechead  hum,  burthat  heknowes
and  apprehendsvs  firlt  of  all}.
v.  17.  Thic  t  ſayÞ-lo  the  lormer  verſes  Paxthath  laid  downe
two  grounds:  one  is;that  Teſlaments  of  ten  confirmed,  may  not  40
be  abrogated:  the  other;that  the  promiſes  were  made  to.  Abrahew
and  his  cede;  which  i  18  Chrilt,  [Now,what  of  all  this,  may  _
