---
page: 177
pdf_page: 199
sortable_pagination_id: "177"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
.;Chap.3.
i35
man  ſay  ?  Pa»/thereforeaddestheſe  words,  7h:  7  ay,  thatis,the
ſcope  and  intent  of  all  my  ſpeech  is,toſhew,  that  the  covenant  or
teſtament  confirmed  by  God,cannot  be  abrogated:  and  ſecondly
if  it  might  ſo  be;  yetthat  the  law  could  notabrogate  theteſtametr,
5  becauſcit  was  given  403  yearesafterthe  confirmation  of  the  ſaide
tellament.  And  becauſe  it
might
be  doubtfull  what  Pax  meanes,
when  hefaith,che  covenant
confirmed  cannot  be  abrogated,
he  explanes
himſelfein
the end  ofthe  verſe  by  ſaying  the  promiſe  canner  be  made
of  no  effett.
10
It  is  here  to  be  obſerued,  that  Pas!  ſaith,  the  promiſe  made  to
eAbraham
is  a  cournant,  Or  teſtament,  [tis  a
Couenant  orcompac,
downs  0G  ng  yu
remilhon  of  linnes  _  life
everlaſting,
requi
ith-on  our
ln  reſpeR  of  this
mutuall  obligation,  it  hath  in
ictheforriecf  acovenant.  It  is
i;  loa\Villor  Teſtament
in  two  reſpeRs.
Firſt,  becauſe  the  promiſe
thethingeprenidarreniien  ofinnch,2nd  lhe  conlaling.m
the
thi
remiſhon
and
lite  eucrlaſtiog,arc
iven  after  the  manner  of  legacies,  that  rm
woes  de-
ert,  orprocurement.  Inthis  weſce  the  great  goodnesof  God,
0  who  vouchſafeth  to  name  ther  io  his  teſtament,  that  haue  made
couenant  with  the  divell,and  are  children  of  wrath  by  nature,  as
weall  are,
Againe,  in  thatthe  promiſe  is  «  re/Zawent,  remiſſion  of  (Innes,
and  life  everlaſtingis
/egacie  :  and  tor  the  obtainment  of  them,
25  wee  mult  bring  nothing  vato  God,  but  hunger  and  thirſt  after
them,and  make  ſuite  vato  v30d  for  them,by  asking,  ſeeking,knoc-
king.  Thus  areall  Legacies  obtained,  andthere  isno  more  requi-
red
on  our  part,  but  to  receiueand  acceptthem.  And  though  we
bee  never
ſovnworthy  in  our  ſelues,  yet  ſhall  it  ſuthce  forthe  ha-
30  viog  of  the  bleſling  of  God,if  our  names  bee  tound  in  the  Telta-
ment  of  God,
Againe,  Pal  faith,  that  the  ;
hw  made  to  Abrabamsys  4  conenant
confirmed  of  God,  It  may  bee  demaunded,  by  what  meanes  it  was
confirmed  ?  Anſwer.  By  oath,  Heb.6.  17.  Againe,it  may  bedeman-
35  ded;to  whom  it  wasconfirmed  ?  Anſwer.  To  Abrehamas
beeing
the  Father  of  all  the  faithfull,  and  then  to  his  /eed,  that  18,  firſt,to
.the  Mediatour  Chriſt,  and  cnntaquently,  to  euery  belecuer,whe-
ther  lewe,or  Gentile.  /For  Abr«ham  jn  the
firſt  making,  and  inthe
confirmation  thereof,  mult  bee  conſidered  as  a  publikeperſon,re-
49  preſenting  all the  faithful,
Heere  againe  wee  ſce  Gods  goodnelle.  Wee  are  bound  (imply
to  belecye  his  bareword;  yet  in  regardof  our  weakenelle,  bee  is
N  2
Content
