---
page: 178
pdf_page: 200
sortable_pagination_id: "178"
---
pon
A  Commentarid
Chap.
186
content  toratifie  his  promiſe  by  oatb,that  there  might  bee  nooe-
calionof  vnbelcefe.
Againe,
here  we  are  admoniſhed
to  reſt  by  faith  on  the  promiſe
of  God,  as  Abraham
did, when  there
is no
hope,  Some  may  ſay,
I  could  docſogit  God  would  ſpeake  to  me,as  be  did  to  Abrahew,  1]
anſwer  agaioc,  when  God  ſpake  to  Abrahew,  in  bim  be  ſpake  toall  ?
his  _  and  therefore  to  thee  whoſoeuer  thou  art,that  belecueſt
in
Chriſt.
And  hence  weare  to  gather
ſure  hope  of  life  everlaſting.  For  in
the
perſon  of
Arakem,Godath  ſpoken
toe  he
hath
ade  zo
Ic
miſe  of  bleſſing  to  vs:  he  hath
couenant
with  vs:  and  he
ſworne  vato  vs.  Whatcan  wee  morerequire
of  him  ?  what  better
groundof  erue  comfort?  Heb.6.17.18,
hue  Coetnothalancoeatorochopromiſe  ofthe.
verlaſting,it
muſl  incourage  vs  toalldiligenceio
rn  wh
-  meanes,  whereby  wee may  attaine  tothe  condition
of
and  iemult  arme  vsto  all  patience  in  bearing  the  miſeries  andc+-
lamitics  that fall  outin  the  (trait  way  to  eternall  life.
Further,Pas/laith,  that  che
promiſe
i  4concnant  confirmed  ,  and
II
than
arg  amr
the
ifes
of
part
merit,
merit;  becauſe  he  hath  procured  are;
on  ofſinnes
and  life  cuerla(ting.  By  his  efficacy
becauſe  he  ſcales
Eng  conſciences,remiſſon  of  (innes,and  withall  re-
the  —
__  Thevſe.  p—_  "y
of  *5
is
ground
&  fountaine  of  all  the  bleſlings
of  God.  And for  thiscauſe,
the  right
way  to  obctaine
any
I.
God,is  firſt  to  receivethe
inthe
iſe  Chriſt:
and
Chriſt  becing  ours,  in  bim,and
from  him,we  ſhall  receive  al  things  wn
neceſſarie.
Theſecond  anſwer  of  Pas/to  the  former  obieRion,  is  ,  that
if  the  promiſe  made  to  Abrahew  might  be  diſanulled,  yet  the  law
could  not doe  it.  And  he  giues  a  double  reaſon.  T  bebrit  is  drawn,
from  thecircumſtance  of  time.  Becauſe  the
iſe
or  couenant
was  made  with  Abraham,  and  continued  by  God  430,  yeares  before  35
the  law  $as  giuen:  thereforefaith  Panlythe
law  was not  grinen  to  diſ-
aux!  the  promiſe.
Againlt  this  reaſon,  it  may  beobieQed,  that  Abrahams  feed;  was
but  400.yeeres  ina  (irangeland.Gen.15.  13.4af.  Aloſeripeakes  of
the  time  that  was  from  the  begioning  of  Abrabawsl[ecde,  or  from  4
the  birth  of  /aac  to  the  giving  of  the  Lawe:  and  Pal  heere
{peaksot  therime  that  wasbety
ccac  the  giving  of  the  R___
