---
page: 179
pdf_page: 201
sortable_pagination_id: "179"
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.  3+
187
Abrahanand
the  giuing  ofthe  law:  and  that  was  30.yeares  before
the  birthof  /ſaac.
Againe,  it  may bee  obieted  ,  that  the  Iſraclites
werein  Egype
430,  yeares,  Exod.  12.  40.  The
dweling
of  the  children
of  1ſrael,  while
5  they  dwelledin  Egypt,  was  430.yeares,  T
it  ſeemes  there  was
more  time  betweenethe
iſc,and  thelaw.  An/w.  Themeani
of  Meſesriothis
place,  is  thus  much<  that  the  dwelling
of
thechul-
dren
of  |ſrael,  whilethey  dweltaspilgrimes;  was  for  the  ſpace  of
430.yeares:  andthatin  part  of  this  time they  dwelt  in  Egypt  as
10  ſtrangers.  The  words  may  thus  betranſlated,
7he  dwelling  or  Pere-
grination  907  roger  Iſrael,  in  —_  they  dwelt  m  Egypt,  was  430.
eeres.  Andthis  peregrination  beginsia  the  calling  of  Abraham,
ad  endeatthe  giding  of  the  law.
in  Paul  example,  weſce  what  itis  to  ſearch  the
Scri
not
15  onely  toconlider
the  ſcope  of  whole  bookes,  and  the  parts  there-
of,  oy
every  ſcntence  ,  and
partof
rv
io
nR
be  vied  ofthe  ſonnes
210
Theſecond  reafonvied  by  Pas/,isin  the  18.v.  it  may  beframed
thus.  If  the  law  aboliſh  the  promiſe  ,  then  the  inheritance  muſt
come  by  the  law\:but  that  cannot  be.  He  prooves  it  thus  :  {f  the in-
heritanceof  lifeeternall  be  by  thelaw,it  is  no  more  by  the  promiſe:
but  itis  by  thepromiſe:  becauſe
God  gave  it  vnto  Abrahew
25  by
promiſe:  therefore
it  comes  not  by  the  law.
ome
0  Ao  I
OY  Apa  ſhewes  that
Paul  in  this  Epiſtle  ſpeakes
not  onely  of  the  ceremoniall,  butalſo
ofthe  morall.  Far  the  greateſt  oppolition  is  betweene  the  morall
law,and  the  free  promile
of  God.
30
Letvsagainemarke  here  the  difference  betweenethe  law  and
the  G
Thelaw  promilſethlife,  but  tothe  worker,  for  big  works,
or  vpon  conditipo
of  obedience...  T  he  Goſpel  called  by  Paw/,  the
promiſe
offers  and  giues  lite  freely  without  the  coadicion
of  ap
worke,  andrequiresnothing
butthe
receiving  of  that  which  is  ot-
z5  fered,  It  may  beobieRted,  that  the  Goſpel  promiſeth  life  vypon  the
conditionofour  faith.  A»(,T  he  Goſpel  hath  in  it  no  moral  conditi-
an  of  anything
to be  done  of  vs.  Indeedetaith  is  mentioned  atter
religion.
And
