---
page: 18
pdf_page: 40
sortable_pagination_id: "18"
---
A  Commentarie  pon
Chap.  1  «
283"
The  firlt;is  the  purity  ofthe  law  of  Hoſes,
and  containes1  3\:points.
wherasthelawesof  men  have  their  imperfections,  T  he  ſecond  is,
that  the  Scripture  ſetteth  dowp  the  true  cauſe  of  all  miſery,name-
ly  finne,  an1  the  perfeR  remedie,  namely,  the  death  of  Chriſt,
The  toird  is,  the  antiquitieof  Scripture,  in  that  it  ſets  downean  5
hiſtoric  from  the  begioning  of  the  world..  The  fourth  is,  prophe-
cies  of  things  in  ſundrie  bookes  of  Scripture
,  Which  none  could
poſlibly  forctell  but  God.  The  fift  is,  the  confirmation  of  the  do-
Arine  of  the  Prophets  and  Apoſtles  by  miracles,  that  is,  workes
done  aboue.andcontrarietothe  ſtrength  of  nature,  which  none  10-
can  doe  but  God.  The  fixt  is,the  conſent  of  all  the  Scriptures  with
themſelues,  whereas  the  writings  of  men  are  often  at  iarre  with
a  pen  vs  bes  ſeventh  is,  the  _  of  ho  namely
of  heretikes,  who  in  oppugning
of  Scriptures,
e  Scriptures,
and  thereby  confeſle  -  =  thereof,  The  eight  =  =
vary  is
able  deteſtation,  that  Sathan  andall  wicked  men  beare  tothe  do-
Arine  of  Scripture.  The  ninth  is,  the  proteRion  and  preſeruation
of  it,from  the  beginning  to  this  houre,by  a  ſpeciall  providence  of  |
God.  T  he  tenth  is,  the  con(tant  profeſſion  of
dizzrres,  that  haue
ſhed  their  blood  forthe  Goſpell.
of  Chriſt,  The  eleventh  is,  that  *®-
fearefull  puniſhments  and  iudgemeats.  haue  befallenthem,  tbar
have  oppugned  the  word  of  God.  The  twelfthis,holines  of  them
that
profetle  the  Goſpel,  The  la(t  is;the  effe  and
operation  of  the
word:
foritis  an  inſtrument  of  God,
in  theright  vie  whereof,wee
recciuethe  teſtimony
of  the  ſpirit
of  our  adoption,and  are  conuer-  *  5.
ted  vato  God.  And  yet  nevertheleile,the  word  which  congerteth,
is  contrary  tothe  wicked  nature  of  man.
T  beſecond  teſtimony  is  from  the  Prophets  and  Apoltles,who
were  Embaſſadors  of  God,  extraordinarily  to  repreſent  his  autho-
ritie  vnto  his  Church  ,  andthepen  men  of  the  holy  Ghoit;toſert  3®
downe  the  true  and  proper  word  of  God.  Andthe  Apoltlesaboue
the  rc(t,were  eye-witnelles,aod  eare-witneſſes  of  the  ſayings  and
doings  of  Chriſt  :  and  in  that  they  were  guided  by  the  intallible
a[hiftance  of  the  Spirit,  both  in  preaching  and  writing  :  their  te-
9——Ou—
I;
_—_—
ſkimonie  touchiog  the  things  which  they  wrote,  mul}  needes  bee  3
5-
Authenticall.  It  it  be  ſaid,  that  coupterteit  writings  may  bepub-
liſhed  to  the  world  vader  the  name  of  the  Apoltles.  I  anſwere,  if
they  were  in  thedaies  of  the  Apoſtles,  they  by  their  authoritie  cut
them  off  :  and  therefore  Paw!  ſaith,  ./f  any  te1ch  otherwiſe,let  him  bee
accnrſed,  And  they  provided,  that  no  eounterteits  ſhould  be  foiſted  49--
vndertheir  names,  after  their  departure.  And  heerevpon  lob,  the
iy}  of  the  Apoſtles,  concludes  the  New  Teſtament  with  this
clauſe,
