---
page: 182
pdf_page: 204
sortable_pagination_id: "182"
---
160
Chap.3:
"1.7.  A  Conmentarieupon
they  were  attendants
on  God  in  the  Mount,  when  the law was  de
livered.  Secondly,they  were  witnelſes  and  approouers  of  the de.
liverie,  Thirdly  it  may  be,  thevoiceof  God  whereby  the  law  was
publiſhed
inthe  hearing  of  all  the  Iſraelites,  was  vtrered  and  pro-
nounced
by  the  miniftcrieof  Angels:  for  the  holy  Ghoſt  ſairh,che  5
word  {poken  by  Angels  was  Redfaſt,  Heb.2.2.that  is,  the  law.It  may
be  faid,
all  this  prooucsnot,that  Angels  ordainedthelaw.  A»(/Of.
ten1n  Scripture,  the  worke  oration
of  the  principall
Agent,  is
aſcribed  totheinſtrament,
or  minilter.  The  Saints
are  (aid  ro  indge
1be  wort1,  +  Cor.  6,  whereas  indeede  they  are  no  morebut  witnel:  19
kesand  a
of  this  judgement.  .
[n  the  ſame  manner
7  ime-
thre  isfand  roſans  himſelfe  andotherr;t  Timathies,  4.16,  Thelaſt  trum-
pet  is  ſounded  by  Angels,Afarrh.24.31.a0d
it  iscalled
the  voiceof
an  Archangel,  and  thetrumpe
of  God.  x,7beſſ.4.
/,
Moreover  Paw/ſaith,  the law  was  delinered  by  the  bands  of  a  Mes  1;
gtalowr,that  is,  of
Chriſt  ,  (as
(@me/thinke:)buttharcannot
be: for
the  hand  ofa  Mediatour,,  lignifies  the  miniſterieand  feruice  ofa
Mediatour,and
this  ſervice  is  inferiour  to  the  ſeruice
of  Angels:
becauſethelaw  was  delivered  by
receivedotthem
by  |
a  Mcdiatour.  Thy  aponatngs
320
law.  Demt,g.5.  [tmay  bz  obiefted,thatthereis
but  one  CAfediatour
(brif;1\:Tm.2.3;'
An/,  Mediatour  ofreconciliation  is  onely  one,
and  that  is  Chriſt  :  and  Aoſerisa  Mediatouronely
in  the  relating
ing  the  law  from  God  tothe  Iſraelites.
-  Paadaddrsthay
s  Mediarouri/  net  of  one;  that  is,  that  every  Medi
atour  is  df  twoatcheleaſty,  \:agd  of
cwout
rrancs  and
dare
ment.  And  hefaith  further,  that  God  «  over that  is,
alwajes
the
and  like  bimfelfe  without  change.  And  the  reaſon
of  the  ſpeechis
this.  #4«/bathtaught
that  the  law  was  giuen  by  a  Mediatour,
and  5*
thatthisdeclared  adifferece  between  God  _—_—_———
be  ſaid,  where  is  the  faultin  this  difference,
and who  is  the
it?  Paw(aith,not
God but  man:  becauſe
God  uw  alwaies  ove and  the
«me,
:  Thevſe.Inthatthelaw  is  for
ons,  wee  aretaughtto'  35
examineand  ſearch
our  hearts  andlivesbychelaw  of
God.  Zephan
net  worvbic  to  be  leaned,  Lam,  3,40
Ltturſcarch
TTAITH
Thefirſt,  whenany
one  (inne  is  forbidden  in  any  commande-
49
ment  of  the  law,  vader  it  all  ſinnes  ofthe  ſame  kind  are  forbidden  ,.
allcaaſtsofthew,  antalloccalions,  td
my
yoC3
W.
