---
page: 185
pdf_page: 207
sortable_pagination_id: "185"
---
the  Epiſtle  tothe  Galatians.
Chap.3.
aboliſhedceremonies.  An/w,  This  God  did  'by  an  vochangeable
decree,  beforvall  worlds  :
and  .ſo  the  change  is  in  the  law,  and  not
in  God;Foer  Godcan  decreetoch
this  orthat,  without  change.
Thewfe.  Gods  vachangtableneiie-is  the  foundation  of  our
p  comfort.  Saint.  Paxifſaith,
}f  we  lone  God,
we  are  hnowne  of  bum,  1.Cer,
8,  verſe  3,  Now.  the:  firlt  weermay  'certenly  ode  in  our  (elues,
namely,  theloue
of  God,and  Chrilt-and  for  rhefecond,
God  isva-
changeable.  For  they  which  are\:once  knowneof  God,  are  ever
knowne  of  him  ,  and  that  euen  then  when  they  feele  nothing  but
16  Gods  anger.
Againe,we  areput  in  mindeto  bevnchangeablein  goodthings,
as  in  taith,hope,Joue;good  counſels,  hone(t  promiſes,aod
fuch  like,
ſpecially  inthe  maintenance  ofrrue  religion,  For  we  ought  tobee
like  vato  God.  1t  is  the  poetieof  oargracious
»  d  emopey  e4«
15  dem,  Alwaies
one  and the  ſarve  3,50  doubt  repuagcty.  ran  in
thereligion  eſtabliſhed  among  vs,  Theſame  mull  bethe  minde  of
all  good  ſubie&ts  and  all  goodpeople.  1.Cor.  45.58.
21  1s  the  law  then  againſt  the  promiſe  of  God?God  forbid:  if
to  there  had  beene  4  law  giuen,  which  could  hane  ginen  bfe,  ſurely
righteonſneſſe  ſhould  haut'beene  by  the  law.
22  Butthe  Scrijturt  hath"  concluded  all  ohder  fin,  that  the
ak  by  the  faith  of  1:ſus  Chriſt,  ſhould  be  giuen  to  them.  that
ue.
v5
-  Intheſewords,P
ai  propounds  and  anſwers.  an  other  obieQi-
on,  io  numbertbe  foutth,  Theaccalion  of  the  obiection,  is  taken
out  of  the  former  words  ;it  which  P2»lfaith,  1he  haw  is  for  15an/*
greſſions.  It  may  be  framedbn  this  manner:  Ifthe  law  ſerne  tocon-
30  vince  andcondempe
vs  of  {iave,  it  ſerues  not  to\:giue
life\:but-to
kill,
and  ſoit  is  cantrarieto  thepromiſe  which
giueth
life.  Thean-
fwer  is  made  thxegatiuvely;
God  forbid.  And  a  doublereaſon  is
rende-
redofthe  deniall,]
iathis:
If  the  law  covld  givelibe,it  ſhould
alſo  giverpltice,or
iutlifimzand  fo,it  hould  becontrarieto  thepro-
33  miſe(  becaule  then  there  ſhold  be  two  contrarie  waies  of  iuſlifcati-
bn;  one  byfaith  alene}the  otherby  faith  with  workes,  )Thereforc
idthat  itkilleand  copyemnecs,  it  is  not  contrarie
tothe  promile.
.Jtiathezs,  verſe.  T  hings  ſubordinatenhere-
obone
{erues
:&hergart
got  contrarie:  the  law  and  the  pero-
49  miſe  are
.ubordivert;  forchelaw  preparesthe  way  forthe  accom-
pliſhing  of  the  protniſegrio
that  it  (hues
all  vader  finne,  that  the
qrackilameghiagineatocbeta  that  belccue  in  Chriſt,
"R
02
