---
page: 188
pdf_page: 210
sortable_pagination_id: "188"
---
eps
Chap.  3-
A  Commentarie  pun
ſh..,,.
and  feele  by  experience  this  our  ſpiri.  |
ſuch,  weemuſthbourtoſee
finge,  ©
weernay  ſay  with  Pa«/,  ee  ave  old  mder
tuall  bondage,that
fſe  dwelling
is  our  fleſh,Romey  14,18,
and  that  we  know  theye
is  no
le(ſons  that  we  mult
This  is  one  of  the  firſt
take  out  in  the  ſchogle
of  Chriſt.  Againe,  if-we  ſeriouſly  bethinke
our  ſelves  that  weare
captives
of  (inne,  and  worthy  of  death,  it  wiltmake  vs  with  con.
tentationof  minde
to  bearethe  miſcries  of  thislife,  —_—
uertie,  reproach,  baniſhment  ,  &c.  conlidering
come
ſhort
ſlayes  of
of  that  wee  haue
deſcrued  ;  who are  no  betterthen
ſinne
and  Satan,
Wheras  Pasx/ſaith;thatall  men  with  all  that  proceeds
from  them,
is  ſhut  vader  (in,he  teacheth  that  all  ations  of  men
are  linnes.7  be  wiſdow  of  the  fleſh;thatis,the  wiſelt  cogitations;coun.
ſels,jinclinations  of  the  fleſh,  are  enmitie
with  God,  Rom.$.5.  Tothe
vncleane  all  things  ave
vncleane;Tit.  1.15.
An  enill
tree  cannot  bring  forth  1x
Þ:
good  fruite,/Mart.y.  It  may  be  obieRed,that  naturall  men  may  doe
the  works  of  the  morallaw,as
to  giue  almes,&  ſuch  like;Kew.2,
14,
Anſw.Sinnes
be  of  two  ſorts.  One  is,vwhen  any  thing  is  done  flat  x-
gainſtthe  commandementof  God,  The  ſecond  is,  when
the  a&  or
worke  is  done  which  the  law  preſcribes,yet  not  in  the  ſame  maner  14
which  thelaw  preſcribes,in  faith,in  obedience  tothe  glory  of  God.
Inthis  ſecond
regard,  morall  workes
by  naturallmen,
are  ſinnes  indeed.  Hence  it
libertie  of  will  in  the
&6-
ao  Irma
Ar
fallof  Adam:  and  that
enraged
eb
dealt  poor
of
God.
Whereas  Paw!  faith,that
the  promnſe  ic  ginen
to  belcemerr,  it  is  mani-
feſt,  that  O—_  is  not  vniverfallinreſpeRof  all  mankinde,
but  only  indefinite,and  vniverſall  in
reſpeR  of  belecuers.Wherfore
their  doQtrine  is  not  ſound,thatteach  the  redemption
by  10
,  Chriſt,  tobee  as
as  the  ſinne  wrought
by  Ade.  Indeed.if
weregard  the  valueand  ſufficiencieof  the  death  of  Chriſt,itis  ſo:
but  it  wereſpeRt  the  communication  and  donation  of  this  benefit,
itisnot.  For  though  all  be  ſhut  ynder  ſinne,  yet  the  promiſeis  0n-
ly  given  to  themthat  beleene.  It  is  obiceRted,  that  God  was  in  Chrift  15
——_—
ro  bimſelfe;2,Cor.5.19,  Anſw.  The  text  in  hand
ſhewes  that  by  the  wor/d,we
are  tovnderſtand  al  beleeuers  through
the  wholeworld,  And  whereas  Pax!  ſaith,  God  ut  vp  all  onder
n-
beleefe
that  bee  might  bane  mercie  vpon  all,  Rom,  11.72.  His  meaning
is  here  (et  downe,  that  he  ſhut  both  lewes  and  Gentiles  vnder  vn-  49
belcefe,  that  hee  might  have  mercie  vpon  all  that  helecue,  both
Tewesand  Gentiles.
Marke
