---
page: 19
pdf_page: 19
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.r.
ons  andconieturesin  thefarhers
&  Councels.  Thirdly
which
bold,  arethe  ſame  peradgenture
in  nanie,  but
be  a.
ſame  indeed  with  that  which  the  fathers  hold,nei-
therarethey  boideoin  the  ſame  maner  :  as  tor  example,thepurga-
5  tory  which  the  fathers  hold,is  a  thing  far  different  from  the  purga-
tory  ot  che  P
all  thereit.:  Of  couſevr  they
they
map
bug
but  they  cannot
ſhew  it.  As  for  our  ſelues,  wee  all  conſent
foundation
of  religion.  There  is  difference  about  the  deſcent  of
ChriſtintohelL.T
he  thing  weall  rar.  e>
pabonm  _  No
10  ferenceisinthe  manner,whether  it  be  v
is  difference  aboatthe  paines  of  Chriſt
in  his  agon
yetall  acknowledgethe  infinite  merite  and  eaGrof  e
of  Chri(t:  Thereis  difference  about  che  gouerameat  of  ble
Church
on  carth.  For  the  lubitance
of  governemenc  ll
to  which  the  Epiltieis  ſeat{rorhe  Churches
of
Galaria.]  At  this  time
the  Galatians  bad  madea  reuolt,and  weretallen  from  iullification
25  er  ge  Chriſt:  .ſoas  Paul  var  afraid
of  then,  (bop,  4.
iey  gang  Og  Ps  7  4  Nos  es
A  His  examplemu(t
giving  i
of  churchesof  our  time.  And  that  we  may the  better  doe
the  berrer  relieue  our  conſcience  marke  threerules.  -T  he  firſt  js,
30  __
_  malt  rightly  coa(ider  ofche  taults  ofthe  Churches.  Some
ultsig  manners,fome  indotrine,  Ifthefaolts
of  theehurch
manners,  (ores  6.
ja  the  lives  of
midilters  &
trucreligionistaught,
itis  achurch,
andſoto  beeeomatrand  Ws
5a  ny  3.4
f  Yet  may  we  {eparate
the
priuate  comp'\oy
men-int
churchin.Cors.
rt.  and,
if  itbein  ourliberti
iofynetro
Churches  better  ordered.  lftheerrourbein
doring,we  mull  belt
con{iderwhetheethe
whole  church  erre,or  fore  fewtherio.  If  the
error  bein  ſomeaadnot  inall,it  remainsa  Churchy(hli;es  Corinth
40  Jid;where  fomedenied  the  reſurreRion;  becapſea  Church  is  na-
med  of  che  better
part..  Secondly,
wee  mult  conliderwhethertbe  |
church  ee  i  che
foundation  oro  heeror  oremorabebelde
