---
page: 171
pdf_page: 193
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Glap.3.  199
"The  fourth  pointis,an  otherend  of  our  Redemption,  That  wee
might  receine  the  promiſe  hy  eat  es
For  the  better  vnderſtan-
ding  of  this,  foure  queltio
demanded.  T  he  firſt  is,  what
ixmeant  by  the  promiſe?  4uſ;  The  promiſe  of
God  madein  the
5  vid  Teſtament,  that  kewould  powre  —_—  vponall  fleſh.
Iſ4.44:3  2nd  /eel,z.28,
And  herertivfaid,
that
this
folk.
led  to  the  nations,  when  they  belecue.  Marke  here  how  the  pro-
miſes  of  God  lie  asvoide  ,  dead;andof  none  effeR,  till  theparticu-
lar  time  oftheiraccompliſhmet.
God  promiſeth  45-4bJ  that  bis
46  (terity  ſhall  be  a  great  nation  after  430  7eares\:for
which  time
remainein  thrall  and  bondage  ;  bat  the  very  night after  the  for-
mer  time  was  expired,  nothing,no  not  the
ſea  could  ſtoppe
their  deliverance.  Exed.  12.42,  God
iſct
after  70
yeares  captiuity
enter  yo  CNNIR  was
15  expired.  —_—
atthe
very
begioning
of
his
licati-
*  cns,thedecreeof  odibr  dellerencecantforts  Ding:  25  Theo.
fon
of
God((aith  the  a  is  for  the  appointed  time,  Hab.2.1,and  fo
is  the  promiſe.  This  mult
teach  vsto  be  contenr,if  after  much  pray-
we  findenot  thefruit  of  our  praiers\:becauſethereis  an
20
time  forthe  accompliſhing  ofthe.  In  thisreſpe&  Damdiaith,
that
biceyer  failed,  and  be  was  boarſe  in
prejing  .P/alm.69.4,
The
queſtioa  is,what  ismeant  by  the  giving,  or
oftheſpirit?  A»/.  Withoor  ariy  alteration  orchavge  ©
ft  fig-
nifies  twothings.  The  firſt  is,  Order  betweene  the
perſons,where-
50  þy  the  Father,  and  the  Sonne  workemediately  by  the  holy  Gbol?,
and  the  Holy  Ghoſt  immediately  from  them.  The
ſecond
is,  that
theSpirit  doth  manifet
his"  ety  divine  effes  it'vs.  Tn
invsthat  concernes  ouefaluation:  and,whben
we  beginne  tq  be-
40  eee  ,webegione
to  recahie
tliefpirit:  and  when  we  fir{treceige
Mita  moan  nerd
Andthus  byoar  faith  receive
,  vetheſpitit:
and:
ad  aan  eu
