---
page: 172
pdf_page: 194
---
$9  -
3-
Chaps
{wee
maſt,
imagine,  5x04  260  or  can  belceve
not
of  our
The  fourth
for  what  end
the  ſpirit  ?
Auſw,
is,
forw
wereceiue
For  lixe,  on!  moans  Kar  roman  1.1ob.2,27.  1,  Cor.2.  13,
regeneration,whereby
the  Image  of  God  isreſtoredia
vs,  /oh.g,  ,
for
the
gourrament  ofoor  counſels,  wils,  affeions  ,  a
11.1.  Rome,  8.14.  forthe  effeting
ofthat  coniuntion,  whereby
we
are  vnited  to  Chriltourbead,  x.  Cor.  6.  1  7.  forconſolation  ,  Ren,
8.  16,  we
for  confirmationin  our  faith,  and  euery  good  dutie.
ble  roveiringat
the  ir.
is  one
peciall  end
ofovrrateng,  ®
rece
is  one
end  of  our
on  :  andtherefore
it is  molt  necellarie  for  vs,  to  havethe  ſpirit  of
Goddeellingiavs.  If  we  have  not  theſpirit  ,  weare
not  Chrilts:
and  without
it,  we  can  doe  nothing,
Wemuli
for  this  cauſe
ale
eachthing  whereby  we  may  ob-  ;;
taineand  receive  a
Ulmeaſi
Gods  lpigi.  Kepene
(ith
Fw  ag
Yay
Wi  ty  Te;
Againe,  we  muſt
reaneandpreſeru  he  gre  oth
—_  by  meditation  in  the  word  of  God,  eB  pin
ry
all
d,
ck
paris  ha  rpans  >  cc  0  as  word  or
panes  ee  07
Lally,  by  auouciog  the  thing  of
ences
8.5.  rhe
we  Lally  tnmriogte  nga
ofthem,
and  delightiogio  them.
is  Brethren,  1  ſpeake
as  men  doe  :
though  it  be  but
4  mans  ©
_—  when  i
confirmed,  no  man  doth  abrogace  is,
or  ade
any
16  Now  to  Abraham
and  bis
ſeede  were  the  promiſes  made.
He  ſaith  not,  and  to  the  ſeedes,us  of  many  ;  but,  ids  thy
ſeeds,
4s  of  one,  which  is  Chriſt.
17  4nd
this  x  ſay,  that  mbar  or:
430.  god
ter  ;!  cannot  diſanull  the  conenant  that
ore  confirmed
Godin  reſped#  of  Chriſt,  jun  Sara.  law;  1M
on  For  if  the
inheritence  be  of  the  law,  it  lp
enav  iy
ef
Colguner  ome  Ardemly  ram
"or
oy
'  latheſe  words,  Pav/meetes  with  EF
Exception  ,  obis-
et  me
(tehat  which  bebere  principally  (nora  bf
bleibog
of  Abreben  is  coouaied
(9  the  ©  ad
