---
page: 173
pdf_page: 195
---
and  that  by  Chtift.  TheobieRion  may  be  framed  thes  :  The.  pro-
miſe  madeto  Abrebem,
cannot  now  pertaine  to  theGentiles
,  be-
cauſe  the  law was  added  toit,  and  by  the  law  itis
thereforethe  Gentiles  are  to  be
iulli
5  tion  ofthe  law,  TothisobieQion  ,  Pan!  makes  a
anſwer.
Oneis,that  the  promiſecannot  be  abrogated
:  the  ſecond,  thatifir
might
be  abrogated,  yetthelaw  cannot  docit.  The  firſt  becon-
firmeson
this  manner  :
T  he  Teſtament  of  God  confirmed,  cannot  be  abrogated  :
10.
The  promiſes  made  to  Abraham  and  his  ſeede,  which  is
Chriſt,arce  his  Teſtament  confirmed:
T  herefore  they  cannot  beabrogated.
Thepropoſitzen  is  expretled  in  the  17.  verſe,  and  ie  confirmed,
by
compariſon,thus,  I  he  teſtament
of  man  after  it is
con
ay
15  not  be  abrogated:  much  leile  the  Teltament  of  God,  v.  15.  The
mixer  is  propounded  in  the  16,  and  217.  verſes.  Now  I  come  to
eofthe  words
as  they  lie,
Brethren)  Paul  had  before  called  them  foolesz  and  thatiuftly,  be-
cauſet
from  the  doArine  which  he  taught  them  ,  to  ar  o-
20  ther
Goſpel,  And  yet  bere  hecalles  them  bretbres,  And  hencelet
vs  learve,  that  in  diviſion  ofiadgement
andopinion,
there  mult  be
no  diviGon  but  vnitieofaffeRion.  1t  is,  and  hath  bin  alwaics  the
|  plagueofthe  Church,  tbat  diviſion  of  beartand  affection,  there
'  takesplace,  where  aoy  diviſion  is  in  iudgement  ,  though  men  erre
25  of
infirmitie.  T  his  evil  cauſeth  more  tobe  condemaed  for  here-
tikes  ,  then  indeede  ouvghtto  be  :  it  maketh  ſchiſmes  wherenone
ſhould  be:  it  maketh  diiſentions  to  be  incurable:  whichatherwile
might  be  cut  off,  And  therefore  if  di(ſentious  in  judgement  ariſe,
wemult  remember  to  ſupprele,  envie,  hatred,  pride,  {clfr-loue,
3e.andlet  Chrillian  loue  beare  (way.
hs
Againe,  here  weleeit  is  lawtull,  to  ſpeake  io  Sermons;asmen
doe,  {oit  be  done  after  theexarple  of  Pa«/,  with  theſe  cautions..
Firll,  it
mult  be  done  ſparingly,  and  ſoberly,  withoutgltentation.
Secondly;it  mult  be  dove  vpon  aiull  cauſe,  as  when  theſayingsof
35  men  ſcrue  to  convincethe  bearers,  and  that  in  their  a.
Thirdly  ,  adifference  mult  be  made  betweene  the  word
of  man,
andtheword  of  God
leall  in  adding  oneto  the  other,  the  word
0  Gadlole  his  grace  ,  andexcellencie,  Lallly,  Gods  word  enely
mult  brethe  foundation  of  the  doriaewhich.is  tayught,andthe
48  word  of  man  is  to  beciadded,  ip  reſpeR  of  our  intirmitie.  to  giue
light  ,|  of  ctoconvivee.,
That  which  Pas/{peakes
after  the  manner  of  men,  lnegringple
62s
