---
page: 196
pdf_page: 218
sortable_pagination_id: "196"
---
Chap.3-
A  Conmentarie
pon
204
law  of  pature,as  appeares  by  Nabuchadnez<ar,  who  gave
in  com-
mandement  to  his  people,  that  whoſoever  blaſpbemed  the-name
of  the  true  Godſhould  be  put  todeath,D
x.  3.29.  Here  note,  that
manifeſt  and  convicted  Athealts,  it  chey  bee  put  to  death,  baue  _
exeſerh  farber  x:  wotherfoell  diethe  deals.  *  |  *
bet
ds
e  4.  He  that  enrſet
or  mot
all
ave
u4.4.  9.  T  his  law  is  a  nece(dary  fenſe  tothe  att  commaundement,
andvpboldsihe  honourthat  1sdue
to  parents.
Example  5.  Hee  that  ſanites  4  tan  that  bee  die:
foalldrethe  death,
Exodus  21,12,  T  othis
law  there  is  no  exception  made,  but  one;  16
and  that  is,  when  a  man
is  killed
at.  vnamares,  ;
And  it  ia  for his
pop,  For  it  is  a  maine  and-direRt  fenſe.to  the  fxth
_—
ement.  Conlider  an:  other:  teaſon,,
Nam,  3534;  7he
whole
lend  (ſaith  the  Lord)  all  bee  defiled  with  blood,
till  buy  Ghote
foed  that  illetb  aman.
Example  6.  The  adulterer  and  the  adult
foal  bmbbe  hah
Lewit  20,  ha  nr
EI
ld  LOND
which  is  the  endof  the  ſeuenth
reaſons,Lews,  ne  >  297i
er
RY
thatis,for  ſuffering  this  and  other
þ  nocghon,  le  may  bed  abat  Chl  tit  oeeon  drome  hot,  ®
Mediat  ,and
Todge  diggs  Icwalldgnhas  ew
our,and
nota
or
was  not  put  to  death  for  adultery,  Auf.  He  was the  =
ATW
ey  II
rp
be  death,then  innumerableperigns
mult
dortber  ==
Iy  from  the  hot
———
ſhall  —_—  —
ple,  Dene.  22.5.
womanyuwr
the  woman  the  thy)  that  apyer  taiue  10  thy  man,  hay  +
more  then  ludiciall:  for  itisa
of  gature,
thelight
io  thoſe  countriesby
gator  beret  wrienlawmis  3
neverknowne.  And  things  good  and  honefk
which
<harcmorallangmuibedoue.Lhivis
—_—
Mea  thightie  Corel  heb  et  1
67;
bns).
As.
ny  Ot,  »o2-  £
This
tocealyrean  dcontewaethelawegof  this  or
_—  CFomonE  oe
butonch  to  we  hy  lar
oth
wealth  :
-  Thiel  epefionahavieges  guide  ng  ja  thetine  ofthe
