---
page: 198
pdf_page: 220
sortable_pagination_id: "198"
---
Chap.3-
A  Commentarie
-yjon
God,  he
itthus:  Ye  arebaptiſed
into  Chriſt,  and  inbap-
tiſme
puton  Chriſt,  in  that  yeare  ioyned  with  him,  and
haue
fellowſhippe  with  him,  who  is
the  naturall  Sonpe  of  God:
therefore
ye  are  ſonnes  of  God,  It  maybeſaide,  Allchildren  of
God?all  bagtized?  all  put
6n  Chriſt?  Howean  this  be?  fecing  ſome  5
are  lewes,  lone  Gentiles;lome  bond;  ſome  free;  ſome  men;  ſome
women.  Theanſwer  ismade,v.27,  there  aredifferences
of  men
indeede,but  in  Chriſt,allareas
one.
In  theſe  words,  I  conſider  two  things.  The  firlt  is,  the  benefit
or  gift  beſtowed  onthe  Galatians,
which
is  ſorpe-ſhip,
on,  ts
re
rs  Gods  children,  qr"  wav
of  this  bene
foure  arguments;
circum-
hero  mare  om
all  are  chiltren
of  Ged,  T  heſecondis,thein-
ward  meanes,tamely,  faubin  Chrift  leſus,  Thethird  is,  the  out-
ward  meanes,  or  the
pledge  of  adoption,  ye  re
al  bapriſea'
imo  x;
Chrift,Thelaſtis;the
ion
of
100,
and  thatis,
1wpur
on
on  deer  apinarerog
eden
wh
For  the  better  concciving
of  the  benefit,  three  queſtions  may
be  moaued.T  be  firſt  is,  yhoſe  ſonnes  the  Galatians
were?  An/wer,
The  ſonnes  of  God.  It  may  be  ſaide,  how  the  fonnes
of  God?  15
|  anſweragaine,  God  is
a  father,  in  two  reſpetts  \:firſt,
be  is
yes  00  we  omg  ne»  mags  7  re
ſigni
perion.
Againe,
s  called  a  father  in  reſpeRt
ofmen  Ele  to  ſaluation  ;then  the  name  of  God  js  put  indefi-
nitly
:  andit  comprehends  not  onely  the  firſt
alſo  the  55
ſonne,and  holy  Ghoſt,  For  allthree
doe
equ  EF  gegverate
that  are  adopted,  Apd  Per  ſaith  of  the
nit-
ly  \:thereisone  God  and  father  of  all.  Eph,  4.6,  And  when  wepray»
layios,  Our  father,  &c,weinuocate  pot  onely  the  firſt
perſon,  but
alſo  the  Sonne,
and  boly  Ghoſt.
And  the  fonne  of  God,  is  exprefle-  3®
ly  called  the  farber  ef
eternitie,inreipeRt  of  vs,7/a.9.6,;ant  beisfaidrs
hawe  hisſeede.Iſa.53.11,
The  ſecond  queſtion  is,
in  what  reſpect  are  the  Galatians  the
children  of  God?  Anſwer,  Achildeof  God  is  two  waies  :  by  natwre;
bz  grace.  T  hechilde  of  God  by  xatureis  Chriſt  as  heis  the  eternall  35
lonneof  God.  'A  childeby  grecey  is  tbrec  waies.  By  crevtions  thus
eAdaws  before  hisfall,  and  the  good/Angels  are-the-  children  of
God.  Secondly,  by  the per
ſevall  vx»:  thus  Chriftas  he  is  man  is
the  child  of
God.
Thirdly,  y  the  grace  of  adoption:
thus  are all  troe
hbelcevers,  and  in  this  text,the  Galatians  are  ſaidetobe  rhe  children  49
cf  God,  ln  this  grace  of  adoptien;there  berwo  actsotGod  :  one  is
Agteptation,
wherby  God  accepts  inen'  tor
his  children.
The  other
is.
