---
page: 199
pdf_page: 221
sortable_pagination_id: "199"
---
thedipifple  to  the  Galitinms.
|  Chap.z.
207
3.
isR
t6u,whereby  men  are  borne  of  God,  when  the  image  of
Gola
in  them,in  righteouſnes,and  true  holines,
The  third  queltion
is,  what  is  the  excellency
of  this  benefitte  ?
Anſwer,  Greatenery
way.  Jeh.3.12;he  which/is  thechild  of  God  is
5  hcireandfellowhtice
with  Chriſt,  Xom!$727.and  that  of  the  king  -
dome  ofheauen  z  .andiof  allichiogs  in'  heaven  and  earth,  7,
Cor.  3,22.  hehath'citle
in  this  life,  and  (hall  havepoſſeſſion  in
thelife
to  come.
Againe,  be  thatis
Gods  child  hath  the  angels  of
Godtoattend  on
hi
to  miniftervatohimforbis  good  and
4  Cee  oblaterth  idoptionof:  Gode  children
-  The
ea
is
ſet  forth,  is  concerning
the  perſons
to  whom  it  belongs,intheſe
wordes,  All  yearethe  children  of  God,  So  Paul  (aithyall  the  Epbeli-
ans  are  Elef?,  Epb.t.3.  And  Prey  calls  all  thern  to  whom  be
5  writes,  1.Pet.1.1;  Eleliyand  lobs  way  ODE  64  And
iudgementsto  God.  Here  |  obſcrueonethiog,that  CI
fall  doth
not  aboliſh  the  favour
of  God,and  extiogviſh  the  grace
of
regeneration.  For the  Galatians  erred  im  the  foundation  ot  religi-
29  on;  and  had  fallenaway
toan  other  Golpe|  ':  and  yet  Part  fark,
that  rbey  were(for
all  this)  rbe  ch:/dron  of  Gad,  and  not  ſome,  but
all  of  them,  T  his  truth  may  be  ſeeneby
jence;  Thechild  of
God  before
his  fall,  bath  a
nottolinne:  in  thetime  of
ion
when  beis  io
faling;
he  hath  a  ſtrife;after
he  is  fallen,
25  helieth
not  in  bis  fall;  as  wicked  mendocQbut
he  recovereth  him-
ſelfe  by  new
And  this  hews.thattbechild  of  God  by
his  fall  doth  riot  retorne  |
eo  thie  eſtate  and  condition  of
wicked  men;\:WhenS.  1
ithherbat  is  berne  of  God  ſmnnet  not,  his
meaning
is  this;be  that  isborne
of  Godt  be  tall  iotoany  offence
30  <
frailey,  Rt
ro  praQtiſe  of  {inney  as  the  wicked,
11S
W3IV  4429.07
""
14.
It  may  be  (aide,  th@alatians,  and  allthe  Galatians,  arethe-
childrenof  Godeburwhar  is  thatto  vs?  Anſwer,  T  hey  among  vs
thatprofeſſerruefaith  in;Qhrilt,  with  care  to  keepe  good  copici-
35  ence,xe  likewiſe  tohold  themlelaes  to  be  children  of  God.
He  be-
leeues  not-the  Golpel;thav
doth  vor  beleeve  kis\:owne  adoption;
Forin  the  Golpel  there  is  a  promilc  of  a!l  the  bleſſings  of  God,  to
them  that  belreue-  +  2nd  thete  is  allo  achmmandemnent  'roapply
theſaidpromile  to  ourlcioes;  and-  conſequently;toapply  the  gitt
40  ofadoprionts  ourſelyes;  When  weare  bidden  to  ſay,Onr  Rather,
we  are  bidden  to  beleeue
ut  ſelpes  tobe  ar  en
core  vntghitn,  Thervtere  hith/  4p  Þkfay,thatalave  thatwruly
lecue
