---
page: 20
pdf_page: 20
---
Chapt.
4A  Comuentarie
pen
the  toundation  of  religion,Pa/  bath  given  the  ſentencethat  they
w  bich  build  vpon  the  toundation  hay  anditubble  of  erronious  o-
pinion,may  be  ſaued,  1.Cor.  3.15.  T  hirdly,inquiry  mult  bee  made
whether  the  Church  erre
of  humane  frailtic,or  of  obſtinacy,  It  it
erre  of  frailty,though  the  error  bein  the  foundacion,
yet  it  is  (till  a  *
CAA  PEn  by  che
the  Galatians,
Y  etifachurch
ſhal  erre  in  the  foundation
,and  ob(linatly,it  ſeparates  from
Chriſt,and  ceaſeth  to  be  a  Church,
and  wee  may  ſeparate
from  it
ayd  may  give  iudgement  that  it  is  no  Church.  Whenthe  lewes  ,  ,
reſted  cnacnen  of  Paw/,and  had
to  lay  but  toraile,
P  anighen
church
of  Epheſus,
and
Romefrom  them,
Ad,  tg.
$.  &  28  28.  lt  may  berebe  demaunded,
why  Pax/  writes
tothe  Galatians  as  brethren,  andcals  them  Churches,  ſceing  they
haueerred  in  the  foupdation,and
are  as  hefaitb,verl.  6.
rewooned7o  |
another
Gaſpelt:  1  anſver,he  could  doeno  otherwiſe.
Ifa
man
ſhall  erre,
firſt  bee  agrwoniſhed,
and  then  the  Church  mull
betoldof  Cs
may  bee
|  ha  erno—ng  Publican,&
not
before:
much  morethen,ifthe
-hurch  (hallene,there
mult  firſt  be  an  examination
of  the  errour,  ,,
and  then  ſpfbcieat  conviction  :  and  after  conviction,followesthe
cenſure  vpon  theChurch,and  iudgement
then  may
begi
not  befote.
And  Paxthad
now  only
Church,
And  though  Pa/callrhe  Galatians  Churches  of  God,  yet
we  not  bence  gather,that  checburch  of  Romeisachurch  of
God.
T  he  nameitmay  have;butit  doetb  in  truth  openly,  and
ob(tinat-
'y  oppugnethe  manife(}  9
Chriſhanreligion,
If  any  demapnd  1
Chuches  of  'Galatia  are?  1  an-  35
eefanoc  Clare  ache  deywaſn  el
were
in
the
the  A
et  now the
Covntrey  is  vader  the  dominion
of  the  Turke.  "This  ſhower,
what  God
have  done
to  vs  in  England
eng  agoe  for  the
——__
Golpell.  This  againe  thewes,  what  deſolation
ogg  foorth  better  fruites  of
3  Grace
