---
page: 200
pdf_page: 222
sortable_pagination_id: "200"
---
Comonentarie«  "——
208
Chap
af
keueio  Chriltand  have
carto  leadea  good
life
all  I  ay,
are  jn-
deed  thechildren
of  God.
Thevſe.  Comforcs  ariling
by  this  benefit,are  many.Firſt,ifthoy
be  Gods  childe  ,  furely  be  will  Cm  mens
neceſſarie  forthy
ſaule
and  body,44zr.6  26,  Qureare
mult  be  todoe  the  officeand  5
dmizubatbolaagy  vnto  vs:  when  this  is  doge;our  careis  ended.  As
forth  godlaclil  aur
abort
me
anita  ur
carcon  Gab
ET  nparymomns  tr  morn  hi.
idethatna
io
vato  vs,  Pal,
therleſſe  children.
Seckidirindhet  wenrediBdcm  phe  binciibertiorocomeine
ET
rn  es
1  42.
hicdly,
ſhall  hurt  them  that  are the  children  of  God,
Fan:
UBT  LY  owed  ve  Pen  Any  ra  >
«ſpend  tread  bens  vader  froryPal  gi.  t3.
Alt
uy
—_
ood,Rerw.  8,28.  Aod  thecather;becaule  the  Angelsof
Godpi  hare  tents  about  them.
Laſthy,God  will  beare  with  cheinfemitiesand  frailties  of
them
is  yer  pay  ms  <7  inthema  careto  pleaſe  himywith  a
that  are
notlncingy
3:7.  1F  achildebe  fickesthetather  16
——
|S  rey  mach  le(ſe  will  God;-  |
Thedoties,  Firftjif
childre,cthen
of
poi
Benot  vaſials  of  han:
TE.
as  kings  ſonnes  :
Moe  fe
anc  Ven  Dongle
ved  himſelfelike
fork
ne  Es
ak  27
yr  yr  wy  are  isuHor
ifwe
to
of  this  world  doe,whatſoever  we  protellawmccere  ingugh  chagith  4
"Secondynemal  ſever  day  TRIS.
{rang
z  wemu
ecuery  day
dunks  tot
and  wee  mult  doeall  ep
a  —  4
ce,preſenting
one  ſelues  ynto  him,  as  1a(lruments  of  his  glorie  53
0dr  TR-
SI  Eebeneyt  thatthechild  ofGod  owes
vatohim,  44a{4;6.
Thi
-muſt  be  (
to  themealare  of
race)
to  reſemble  Chrilt  in  all  good  vertucs,and  holy  conucriation.
For:
heis  oureldeſt
kcit  borne  of  many  brethrencand  ther-
49
fore  weſhauld
be  like  vnto
bim-1./96.3.2,3
Foundly,  wecalbtadeicaradioners  the  word  of
God,
