---
page: 180
pdf_page: 202
---
[88
Chap-3-
4  Commentavie  won
Anatichergoorance
of  this  point
in  the  Cttyrcb  bfRomwe,
harh  bin
the  decay  ofreligion,  ſpecially  in  the  articleof  /»fomnieni\  +  5:
;  Thirdly;  werikulierboblex  a6,  the  oppaſi  tid  berweene
the
Law  &theftee
promiſe  of  God,in  theiuftihcationofa
inner:  Por
the  law,jt  comes  bythe  promiſe  faith  Pact,  And  Rom.  4.14,  ;
lfvcemeby
Iftbey  which  are  of  the  law art  beeres,the  pronſe  is  of
noworff-it.  By  this
we  ſee  the  Church  of  Rome  ouertarnes  and  abropatcs,  the  Free
promiſe
of  God,  For  they  of  that\:Churth  teuch,thatthe  brft  ioſti.
fication  is  by  meere  mercie:  andthar'the  ſecond,  is  by  theworkes
ofthe  law.  But  thelaw  and  the
cannot  bemixed  together,  1
morethen
fire  and  water:-the  law  ioyned  wirtyrhe  tree  promiſe,
diſanulitheſajdpromiſe.
i:
ings  oo
ng
Laſtly,  in  that  Paw/faith,
rely
beſtowed  the
is-
beritence
bythe  promiſe,  it
muit  beconlidered  ghatthis  Giving  is  no
private,  but  a  publike  dovation,  For  .Abywbawroult  be  contidered  1;
as
apublikeperſon
:  and  thatrwhich  wasgihtemed
him,  wasin  him
me
to  alithat  ſhould  beleeve  as  hedid,  Artthou
chen  a  true  be-
euer
?doel  thootruly  turne  vato  God?  Herttsthy  comfort:  the
inheritance  of  eternall  lifeis  as  ſurely  thine  ,  as  it  was  Abrabamy,
when
he  beleeued.  For  thou  art  partaker  of  theſfame
iſe  with  20
him  :  and  when  God  yane  him  life,
heegauevbiec
alfolife  io  him,
Agaiie,  perſons  backward,  and
cartels,  woſthe
(lj
alldi
to  vicall  good  meanies  that  they  may  belceeue
trolyin
ip  Chri(t,  and  truly  turneto  God,  Forſo  ſooneasrhey  begin
to  be-
lecve,  and  to  turne  vato  God,they  arcentredintorhecondition  of  1;
Abrabaw,  and  it  they  continue,  they  fall  fit  dowone  with  Abraben,
Iſaac;  and  [rrob,  abhaaleanece  and'after  this  lifey  they
—=
ſhallre(t
inthe  boſameo!t  4brabaw,Forthag
which  was  done
to 4-
brabam,ſhall  be  done  to  all  that  walke  in  his  ſteps;
19  Wherefore
then  ſerues  the  law?  1t  was  added  becauſe
tha  Seoper  gran  =o
feede  was  rome  ro  which'the  ras
Was  mide  :
and  it  wit  ordiiyed
by  Anh  i  the  hund  of  i
.  20  Now  4  Mediatour
is  not  of  one:  but  God  is  one...
35
Pax  hath  prooued  before,that
the law  dothnot  aboliſh  the
wiſe  this  laſt  reaſoo  was  ;  becatfſe  ther)  the
fa
ould
bee
by  the  law  :  which
cannothe;
Againft  rhisyeaſdh
in  the!
9.  and
20.  verſes,  there.isan  obieQion  made;zodanſitrered”
The  obietti  48
onisthis,'If  lifeand  juſtice  comenott  Ns  DL  BI
vaine.  And  this  obieQiqn
is  ©
y  Fay  of
ituctrogaticl)
