---
page: 203
pdf_page: 225
sortable_pagination_id: "203"
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians,
Chap.3.
daily  pradiife:  andthus  is
faith  truly  conceiued,and  confirmed.  A-
gaine  faith  is  cenceived  in  the  vic  of  holy  meanes,  namely,  the
preachiog  ofthe  word  and  Sacraments.  For  in  bearing  and  recei-
uing  the  Lords  Supper
to  meditate  vpon  the  promiſe  ot  mercy,and
in  meditation  to  apply  the  ſaid  promiſe  to  my  ſelfe,is  the  right  way
5  toconceivetrue  faith.  Thereforeit  mult  beremembred,that  faith
conceived  without  the  exerciſes  of  inuocation  and  repentance,or
conceived  withoutthe  vic
of  the  word  and  Sacraments  (as  com-
monly  it  is)  is  not  true  faith,  but  an  imagination  or  fiction  of  the
10  praive,which  will  faile  in  the  end.
The  third  point  to  bee  conſidered,  is  the  ſigne,  or  the  out-
ward  meanes  of  Adoption,  and  thatis  Baptiſme.  It  may  beede-
manded,  how  Baptiſme  can  bee  a  marke  or  (igne  of  the  childe  of
God,conlidering
all  forts  ofmen  are  partakers  of  it  ?  Anſwer,  Bap-
15.  tiſme  alone  is  n0  marke
of  Gods  childe,  but  baptiſme  ioyned  with
faich  :  for  ſo  mult  the  text  be  coaceiued;
Al  je  Galatians
that  belrene,
are  baptized  into  Chriſt,  For  Pax!  had  (aid  immediatly  before,
7e  are
the  ſonnes
of  God  by  favth,  Argaine,  the  Scripture  ſpeaking  of  Bap«
tiſme,  comprebends  both  the  outward  and  che  inward  baptiſme,
29  which  is  thejaward  Baptiſme  of  the  Spirit,  4ſarth.  3.11.a0d  1,
Pet.3.22,  And  thusis  Baptiſme  alwaics  an  infallible  marke  of  the
childot  God.
le  may  further  bee  demaunded,  what  are-  the  markes  of  thein»
ward  baptiſme?  A».  T  he  new  birth,  wherby  aman  is  waſhed  and
5  deanſed
by  the  fpirx  of  God,  bath  three  ſpeciall  markes.  The  fielt
isthe  ſpirit  of  grace  and  ſupphlcations,Z.ch.12.  20.  that  is,the  ſpi.
rit  of
regencrai10n,cauling
mer  to  turne  ta  God,  and  withall  to
make  inline  praicr  and  {upplication  for  mercy  and  forgiueneile  of
linnespaſt,  T  be  ſecond  is,  to  heare  and  obey  the  voiceof  God  in
39  all  things,  /ob»  8.47.6  10.27,  T  he  third  is,00t  to  linoe;that  is,not
toligeia  the  practiſe  of  any  Lone  after  chis  new  birth  is  beguo,  2.
Jobn  3,  He  that  is  borne  of  God,doth
not  commit  ſin,  He  may  fail  inthis
orthat  ſpeach,or  doe  amille  in  this  orthat  aQtion;
but  after  his  cal-
ling
and  converſion,thetenour  and  courſe  of  his  life  ſhalt
be  accor-
35  dingto  the  commandements  of  God.  And  thisisa  ſpeciall  marke
to  diſcernethe  inward  baptiſme.
Some  alledge,  that  having  long  agoe  been  baptized  with  wa-
ter,yet  they  feele  not  the  inward  baptiime:  and  thertorethey  feare-
thatthey
are  nottbe  children  of  God.  Anſwer,  If  there
be in  thee  a
4  ſorrow  tor  thy  corruptions  and  linnes  palt  :  if  thou  haſt
a  purpoſe
to  ſinneno  more:  if  thou  avoideſt  the  occalions  of  linne,  and
fearelt  to  offend  :  it  having  ſinned,  thou  lielt  not  in  thy  (ione,
bue
