---
page: 204
pdf_page: 226
sortable_pagination_id: "204"
---
Chap.'3-
A  Commentarie  pon
:  thou  art  verily  bore
ſelfe  by  new  repentance
butrecovereltthy
--
of  the  boly  Gho(t.
of  God,and  baptized  hike  baptiſme
Othersalleadge,
that  although  they  haue  beene
bapt
they  fearethey
haueno  faith  :  and  thereforethey  thinke  they  are
not  thechildren  of  God.  Anſwer.  If  there  bee  in  thee  a  ſorrow;  hk  #5
for  thine  vabelcefe,
a  will  and  deſire  to  belecue,  and  a  care  to  in.
creaſc  in  faith  by  thevſe
of  good  meanes,
thereis  a  meaſure  of  true
faith  in  thee,  and  by  it  thou  mayelt
aſſure  thy  ſelte  that  thou
an
—_  ur  ee}
bat  chey  baveloogrmadeprayervas
againe
In
10
God,and  that  according  to  his  will,  and  yet  their  praiers  have  not
bia  heard:  and  therefore  they  often  doubt  they  are  not  Gods  chil.
EE  ED
dren.  Au/.If  thou  can(t  pray
thy  praier  be  not  heard  accor-
om.  816,26.
yy
mailt  kaowthat  hoo  wtche  Hildeof  God.
-  HR  =»  »  1  nematem—apo  a  -
z  Damely,  Baprtiſme  ioyned
true
faith
in
or
outward
bapti
with  the  in
of
the  ſpirit,
Thevie.  Many
avouch  the
of
Rome
to  bee'the  1,
true  Church  of  God:  andthat
becauſe
they  ſay  ,in  it  there  istrue
baptiſme,
which  is  a  markeof  the  Church  of  God.  But
are
deceiued  :  for  baptiſme
in  the  Church
of  Rome
is  ſevered
true  faith  ,  or  from  the  Apoſtolike
doctrine  :  and  the  outward
>  ryan
>  inward
bapti
For  they  of  that  1;
,  ouerturae  iuſtification  by  the  meere  mercie
of  God,
whichis
the
principall
part  of  the  inward
Againe,the
ten  Tribes
retained
circumcilion
after their  Apoſtalie  :  yet  for  all
that  condemnedto  benopeopleof
God  O/e.  1.9.  Thelight
inthe
lanthorne  pertaines  not  to  the  lanthorne,  but  ro  the  pa
i046
the  ſtreet:  even  ſothe  confeſſion  of  faith  in  the  Symbole
of  the
Apoltles,  and  Baptiſme  that  are  retained  in  the  og"
not  to  the  Papacie  ,  but
to  another  hidden  Church
,  w  _
theſe  and  other  meanes
is  gathered  out  of  the  midde(t  of
Romi
Babylon.  And  therefore
Baptiſme  is  rather  a  (igne  of  this,then
of  35
the  Romiſh  Church.
_  ny
be  warned
to  take  heed  that  wee  deceivenot
our  {elues,  thinking  it  a  ſufficient  matter  that  wee  haye  beene
baptized.  For  except  Chriſt  inwardly  waſh  vs  with  his  Spirit,  wee
b  we  no  part  in  bim,  loby  13.8.  Circumciſion
(ſaith  Pax)  anailcthwot,  40
v=leſſe  thow  bee  4  doey  of  the  law,  Romances  2.25.  Baptiſme  indeed
{aueth,1,Perer  3-21,  but  thatis  not  the  baptiſme  of  water  ,
but  rhe
ſhipnla-
