---
page: 205
pdf_page: 227
sortable_pagination_id: "205"
---
the  Epiſtle  ts  the  Galatians.
Chap.3.
213
ulation  of  4  good  conſcience,  by  the  reſwrretlion  of  C  brit,  The  cut-
g  Hips  rows  Fu.
without  the  inward  ,  is  not  the  marke  of  Gods
childe,but  the  marke  of  the  foole  that  makes  a  vow,  and  afterward
breakes  it,  Eccleſ.  $.3.
Moreovuer,baptiſme  is  not  only  a  ſigne  of  our  adoption,
but  alſo
a  ſcale  thereof,
and  a  meanestoconvay  itvnto  vs:  andfor  the  ber:
ter  vaderſianding
of  this  point,  and  for  a  further  clearing  of  the
27.  verſe,|  wil  ſpeakeofthe  whole  nature  of  baptiſme.
T  hat  which
is  to  be  delivered,!  reduce  to  cight  heads.  1.  thename  of
baptiſme
16  and  the  phraſes.  II,  the  matter.  111,  cheforme.  I  V.  the  ende.
V.  the  efficacie  of  baptilme.  V  I,  the  nece(htie  thereof.  V  11.  the
circcumflances.  V  111,  the  vſe.
Touching  tbe  name  ;  Baptiſme  is  taken  (ixe  waies.  Firlt,it  (ig-
nifies  the  ſuperſtitious  waſhings  of  the  Pharifies,  who  bound
themſclues  to  the  baptiſmes  or  waſhings  of  cups  and  pots,  14  hz
7.4.  Secondly,it  ſignifies  the  waſhiogs  appointed  by  Gad  in  the
CeremoniallJaw,  Heby.  9,10.  Thirdly  it  bgnities  that  waſhing  by
water,  which  ſerues  to  ſealethe  covenant  of  the  new  Teſiamear,
Mar.28.  19.Fourthly,ifignifies  by  a  metaphor,any  grieuouscrolle
20  or  calamitie.
T  hus  the
paſſion  of  Chrilt  is  called  his  bapriſme,Lrk,
12.50,  Fiftly,it  ſignifies  the  beſtowing  of  extraordinary  gifts  ot  the
holy  Ghoſt,and  that  by  impoſition  of  hands  of  the  Apoſtles,  47s
2.5.and  11,16,  Laſtly,it  (ignifies  the  whole  Eccleſiallicall  Mioi-
ſterie.  Thus  poles
is  faid  to  teach  the  way  of  the  Lord,  knowing
15  nothing  but the  baptiſme(that  is,  the  doftrine)of  /vbn,  As  1825.  In
the  third  ſenſe  is  baptiſme  taken  in  this  place,  when  Pas/  ſaith,  Tee
aval  baptized  into  Chriſt.
The  phraſes  vſed  io  Scripture  as  jr  are  (trangein  reaſon:
and  thereforethey  are  to  bee  explaned.  Here  it  is  ſaid,  Tee  that  are
10-baptized  into  Chriſt,
put  on  Chriſt,  T
hereaſon  of  this  ſpeach  is  three-
fold.  Thebrſt  isthis:  the  waſhing  of  the  bodie  with  water,is  an
outward  ſigne  to  repreſent
to  our  eyes  and  minde  the  inward  wa-
ſhing,and  our  yniop  orconiunQion  with  Chrilt  :  therefore  they
thatarebaptized,are  {aidro  pur  on  Chy1#3.  Thefecondrealon  is,be-
5.cavſe  the  waſhing  by  water  ,  ſcales  vnto  vs  our  inward  ipgrafting
into  Chriſt:  for  as  certainly  as  the  body  is  waſhed  with  water  ;  fo
certainly  are  they  that  beleeue,  ingrafted  into  Chrilt.  T  be  third
reaſan  of  the  ſpeech  is,  becauſe  baptiſme  is  after  aſort  an  inſiru-
ment  whereby  our  inlition  into  Chriſt,  and  fellowſhip  with  bim  is
40  effected,  Forinthe  right  andlawfullvſe  of  baptiſme,  God  accor-
ding  to  his  ownepromule,  ingrafts  them  into  Chrilt  that  belceue  ;  /
and  the  inward  waſhing  is  conterred  with.  the  outward  —_—
OT
