---
page: 186
pdf_page: 208
---
194
Chap.
3-
A  Commentarie
vp0n
The  vie.  Intbat
Par  teics  the
God  forbid  :  wee are
to-auvcide
diſhonour
of  Gad  ,
they
fone.  3,  King.,22:  12;  Capi  kppoig
SIE  Matth.
26,  W
God
recalled  chem
and
ncidtem
row  yes  ney  our  daies  ,  that  many  blaſj
Iob  1.5.
by  cur-
ſing,  ſwearing,  &c.  without  feare,  and  many  doeit(as
many  dilſe-  ,,
En
Fes
.and  beatersthereof  for the  mo(l  part
are  nothing  mooued_  thereat
ſoordinarie  is  the  oftence.  This
ſhewes
the  wickedne(le  of  our  times.
lathe  firſtreaſon  ,  Pex  deliversa.notableconclulion,  namely,
that  the
which  is  the  meanesto
procure  life  vnto  vs,  is  allo  1,
the  meanes  of  our.  julliceor  ivſtification  before  God,  Andgood
reaſon,  Foriullicc
cauſethlite\:and
thatwhich  giucth  life,ficlt
of  all
juſtice.  Henceit  followes  that  warkes  cannot
eternall  life.  .Forif  lite  be  bythe  workes  of  che  law,  then
iuſtice  alſo  :  but  that  cannot
be:  for  we  mult  firſt  of  all  be  iullibed,  19
before  wecan  doe  a  good  worke. Letthe  Papilts  conſider  this,  As
which  teach,  that  faith  is  aloge.in  juſtification,  and  that
ith
and  workesconcurre
eqpowregy  cuperor  oion,ared
For  by  the  formerconcluſion
of  Paul,  if
workes  be  cauſes  of
tion,  then muſt  they  alſo bave  a  (troakein  our  juſtification,  which
z5
they  have  nor,  And  therefore  they  are  the  way  of  our  ſalvation,
butaot
any  cauſe  atall.  L
welce  that  mapy  among  v3do
pothold  Chriſt,or  beleeve  in  himaright,for  their  iuſti6ication:  be-
caulethey
hold  him  without  change
of  beart  andlife.  For
by  Paws
concluſion  ,  whom  Chriſt  quickneth,  ther  hee  juſtifieth  :  and  30
whom  he  doth  not  quicken  ,  them  he.  doth  notiullivie,  Exales
Tn
art  juſtified  :  if  thy  heart
be
formed,  deceiue  not  thy
not  yet  iuſtifed.
he  22.  verſe  followeth,containing
let
vs  conlider
the  meaning  ofthe  words  Thea  non  mas
arcinthe  Ori
eas)  Fas  ———
fore  named,  the  written  lawin  yk
And  further,6y  the  /aw,we  muſt  vnderſtand,  Godin  thelaw  y  Row.  4p
11.  32,  God  hath  concludedall  vndervnbelcefe;”
Concluded|  T  he  law  is  compared
toa  ludgeor  ſergeant  :  nos
