---
page: 187
pdf_page: 209
---
195
the  Epiitle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.  3.
to  a  priſon,  And  the  law  is  ſaid  to  conclude,orincloſe
men  vader
ſine:  becauſe  it  doth  to  the  full  accuſe  and
convince  vsoffinne;ſo
as  our  mouthes
are  (lopped,and  we  haue  no  way  toeſcape.
AJ]  All  men.  that  came
of  Adam
by  generation,
with  all  that
5  comesfrom  them,  theirthoughts,delirez,words,and  deeds.
The  promiſe]  Thethiog  promiſed,  which  is  remiſhonof  (inne,
and  life  everlaſting.
By.the  faith  of  Chriſt  ]  That  is,the  faithwhereof  Chriſt  is  both
the  Authour,  and  matter.  This
is  added,  to  (ignifie  vato  vs,  who
19  aretrue  beleevers,  namely,  they  which  are
$s  by  the  faith
of  Chriſt,
a(t
thistext  of  Pa«/blind  reafon  mooueth  many  queſtions,
asnamely  why  Godcreated  man,and  then  ſuffered  him  to  fall?why
God  did  not  reſtrainethe
fall  of  44aw  to  his  perſos,  but  ſuffersit
z;  foinlargeit  ſelte  toall  mankivd,ſo
asall  be  ſhut
vp  vaderſin  ?  why
thepromiſe  is  not  ginen  00
all,butoaly  to-belecuers?  But  there  are
twoſpeciall  grounds,  vpon  which  we  are  toſtay  ourmiodes,  The
firitis,that  God  bath  an  abſolute  ſoucraignetie  and  lordſhip  ouer
all  his  creatures,  \Ve  may  nottherefore  diſpute  thecaſe  with  God,.
20  Row.9.20,  He  may  doe  with  his  owne  what  be  will,  Matt.20.1  g,  Theſe-
condis,  that  the  waics  and  iudgements  of  'God  are  a  gulfe,  into
whichthe  more  we  ſcarch;the  more  we  plunge
our  ſelues  :  becauſe
they  are  wſcarchable,Rom.  11.33.
Markethe  pbraſe  of  Pau/['  the  Scripture  concludes  all  onder  finne  ]if
25  itconcludeor  ſhut  vp,  then  it  determines  what  is  ane,what  nor.
Addifthis  be  ſo:  then  it  may  alſo  determine  what  is  (rue,and  what
is
falſe:  and
ſo  betruly  tearmed  a  ludgeof  controuerlies  in  religion,
If  it  ſbut  vp  ſinners  vadertheir  (in,  then  alſoit  ſhuts  them  that  erre
vnder  their  errour,
for  errours  be  (innes  and  fruits  ofthe  fleſh,  It  is
30  aid  blaſphemoully,that  if  the  Scripture  be  aiudge;it  is  but  a  dumb
judge
;  and  1  ſay
againe,  that  offenders  may  pleade  for  themſelues
on  this
ſort,that  the  law  is  but  a  dumbe  iudge,  when  it  condemaes
them,and  ſhuts  them  vader  ſinne:  but  they  (hall  God  it  bath  aloud
voyce  in  their  conſciences,when  they  reade  it  ſeriouſly,&  examine
35  themſelues  by  it  :  cuen  fo  the  Scripture  ſpeakes  ſufficiently  tor  the
determination  of  truth  and  talſhood,in  matters
of  ſaluatioo,yhen
itis  ſearched  with  care  and  bumilicie..
When  P  au!  ſaith,Fe  areal  (ut  vp  vader  ſine;  heputsvsin  mind
of  our  molt  miſcrable  condition,  that  wee  are  captiues  of  finne
40  andSatan,incloſed  ip  our  ſinnes  as  in  a  priſon,  likeimpriſoned  ma«
letactours  that  waite  daily  for  thecomipg  of  the  Judgezand  (tand
in  contiguall  teare  uf  execution,  And  1ecing  our  my  4
