---
page: 21
pdf_page: 21
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.
r.
Grace  bee  with'  yow  and
peace  from  God
thy  Father,  and
few  our  Lord  leſiis  Chriſt.  MF
4  Who  gane  ————
Here  is  laid  downe  the  ſecond  part  ofthe  Preface,  which
is  the
Sa/>tation  propounded  in  the  forme  of  aprayer,
Grace  anaperace,c5c.
Grace  bere  mentioned  is  not  any  gift  in  man,  but  grace  isGods,
andin  God.  And  it  (ignifies  his  gracious  favour  and  good  will,
whereby
he  is  well  pleated  with  hiseleR,
in,  and  for  Chriſt.  Thus
10  Pau/diltingui
the  grace  of  God  from  the  gift  that
i  by  grace,
Rom.5.v.15.  and  ets  grace  before  the  gift  as  the  cauſe  of  it.  Heere
camesthe  error  of  the  Papilts  to  beconfuted,  whichteacheth  that
the  grace  which makes  vs  gratefull  ro  God,  is  the  infuſed  gift  of
holinefle  and  charity:  wheras indeed  we  are  not  firltfanRtified,
and
1  5  then  pleaſe
God  :  but  firſt  we
God  by  grace  in  Chriſt,  and
then  vponthis
we  are  ſandtitied,  and  indued  with  charitie.
PA  Prana.  LEGS
ispeace
of  cooſcience,which
is  a  quietnefſe  an  tranquility
minde,  ariling
of  a  ſenſe  and  apptehention
of  reconciliation  with
20  God\:Rem.s.v.i.  Theſecondis  peace  with  the  creatures:  and  it  hath
fivebranches,  T  he  firſt  18,  peace  with  Angels,  for  man  is  redeemed
by  Chrilanb3moamnes  of  this
man  isrecon-
1led
to
goo  hogan  olof.1.20-  |
Theſccond
is,  peace  with  the
godly,who
are  4p  Trey  1  11.9.  The  third
25  1
with  our  (clues:  and  that  is  a  conformitie  of  the  will,
ions,andinclinations
of  rnansnature  to  the  renewed  minde.
The  fourth  is,  peace  in  reſpe&  of  our  enemier.  '
For  the  decree
of
Godis,  Torch  not  mine  anorted,and  doerey  Prophets  nobharmd.  Againe,  Pal.  rog.  ry.
good  of  them,  that lone  God:  The  fift  is,  peace  R232.
All  thing:  turne  to  the
30  with  the  beaſtsof  the  field,  God  makes  acovenant  with  them  for
his
Oſe.  2.18,  The  creatures  deſire  and  wait  for  the  delive-
ranceof
Godschildren,Row.$.  T  hey  that  truſt  in  God,  ſhall  walke
vpon  the  Lion-and  the  Bafiliske,P/al.9t.
-  Thethird  part  of  peacc,is
tie  and  goodſucceſſe:  what-
35  ſoevertherig
wan  doeth;it  proſpers.  Andall  things  proſpe-
redivo  the  houſe  of  P  otipher,  when  lofepb  was  his  ſteward,becauſc  he
feared  God,Gene.19.  1,2,
To  proceed,  Paw/{ctsdowne  the  cauſesof  grace  and  peace,  and
they  are  two,GodcheFather,and  leſvs  Chriſt,  And  heereit  muſt
40  beeremenibred,  that  the  Father  and  Chriſt,  asthey  are  one  God,
they  are  but  onecauſe:  and  yet  in  regard  of  themaner  of  working,
they  aretwodillincauſes.  For  the  Fatbergiues  grace  from  none
B  2
but
