---
page: 210
pdf_page: 232
sortable_pagination_id: "210"
---
Chap:3-
-  A  Commentarie
p0n.
in  the  Godhead?  A/;  No.  For  thetrug
of  the  perſons
menti6a
tormeot  b
e  is  here  preſeribed.
tit  be  ſaid;that  Peter  biddey
Alt,
them  of  leruſalem,repent  and  be  baptized  mto  the  name  of  Chriſt,
2.38.1  anfwerthat  Peters  intet  inthat  place  is,telet  downnot  the
forme  ofbaptilme,bot  theend  and  ſcope  thereof,  which  is,  that  #
we  may  attaineto  true  fellowſhip
with  Chrilt,
diteus
iidg
T  be  fourth  point  is,cancerping
the  endes
of  baptiſme,  which
are  foure.
T  be  firſt  is,that  +
to  beapledge  votovein
reſpe  of  our  weakoegot
gracesand  mercics  of  vz0d,  and
ſpecially  of  our  vnion  with  Chrilt,of  remiſſion  of6ins,and
of  mor-  i
tibcation.Secondly;;jit  ſerues
to  bea'ligne  of  Chriltian  proidfiien
nr  apadeomfornrer  Page,  Fiedly  ie
rmenta  es
tionof
4  goed  conſcience.1.Pet.3.21.  I  inedly,
to  be  a  meanes
CS  E—
into  the  viſible  Church.  Lally,
it  is  a  meanesof  vaity.  Reade  Epb.4.5.1,Cor.12.13.
is
The  b6fth  point  concernesthe  efficacie  of  baptiſme.  Of  which  |
there  be  foure  neceſſarie  queſtions,  The  br(t  is,  whetber
the  Eff
cacic  of  baptiſme  extend
it  ſelfe  to  all  (innes,  and  tothe  wholelife
ofman?  Foranſwer,  |  will
ſet  downe  what  we  teach,and
what  the
Papiſts.  We.teach,  that  the  vſeof  baptiſmeiolargethit  ſelfe.t0#9
the  whole  life  of  man,  and  that  it  takes  away  all  (inspaſt,-preſeoty
and  to  come:  one  caution  remembred,  thatthe  partie:  baptiled)
land  to  the  order  of  baptilime,
which  is,toturnevata  Gad,and  to
belecue  in  Chriſt,  and  totocontinue  by  a  continuall  renovation
of  faith  and  repentance,
as  occaſion  ſhall  be  ſuffered.  Reaſons
may  t
be  thele.  Firlt;the  ſcripture  ſpeakes  of  them  that  bad  long,  before
bin  baptiſed,
and  thatinthe  time  preſent,
apti/me  ſaneth,  1.24.3;
21.20d,ye  are  buried  by  baptiſme  yines
the  death  of  Chriſt,  Rewv.6,4.  Aud
jo  he  ure
cenkoic  ard  be
cher
bolemerh,  anda,  bepere  fall  by
ſaued.  And  Paul  faith,  that  the  Church  ircleanſed  with  the
waſoing
of
water  ,that  it  may  be  preſented  gloriens  and  without  ſpet  onto  God.
Eph.5,
26.  Andall  this  ſhewes  that  baptiſme  hath  the  ſame  efficacie  aftth
which  it  had  before  the  adminiſtrationthereof.  Secondly,the
co-
venant  of  grace  iseutrlaltings/fa.54.40.Hoſ.2.  19.  and  the  cover
nant  is  the  foundation  or  ſubliance  ot  baptiſme  :  therefore  baptil;  35
meis  not  to  be  tied  ta  any  time:  but  it  muſt  have  his  peer.
as  the  coucnantis  of  force,  And  thisappeares  by  the  example
the  Galatians,who
are  now  falle  away  toan  other  goſpel  after  their
baptiſme,  and  yet  areinſtruRted  and  direfed  by  their  baptiſme.
L  a(tly,it  bath  bin  the  dotrine  ofthe  ancient  Church,  that  all  ſins  4  |
are  done  away  by  baptiſmezeven  (innes  to  come.
The  docruae  of  the  Papiltsis,-that  baptiſme  takes  away  all  ,
ligpss..
