---
page: 189
pdf_page: 211
---
&..
the  Epiſtle
te  the  Galatians.
|  Chap.z.
197
"1/217  Me
the  endofthe  law-is  conviction
:  and  the  end  of
ouroewnui
18,  that  the  promiſe  of  mercy-may  bee  given  to
themthat  beleene.  Hereis  notable  comfort,  with  encouragement
toallgood  duties.  Doth  the  law  as  it  were  in  thename  of  God  ar-
5  reſt  thee  ?  doth  itaccuſe
&  convince  thee
of  manifold  fones?  doth
it  arraignetheeat  the  barre  of  Gods  judgement,
and  61  thy  ſoule
with  terrour?:  doeſt  thou  by  the  teſtimonies  of  the  law  and  thine
-  owne  conſcience,{ceand  feele  thy  felfe  to  be  a  moit  miſerable  and
wretched  ſinner?  Well,  It  may  bee  thou  thiokeſt  that  allthisis  a
10  preparation  tothy  damnation:  but  itis  not.  For  it  is
contrariwiſe  a
tion  totbyfaluation.  'For  the  law\:with  a  loud  voicein  thy
e,proclaimes  thee  a  ſinner,and  threatens  thee  with  perdition:
buttheend
of  allthis  is,  that  leſus  Chriſt  may  become  aSaviour
yntothee,ſo  be  it  thou  wilt come  vnto  him,and  beleeuve
in  him.  For
»;  be  ſaues  no  ſheepe,bwe  the  loſt
ſheepezand  by  cals  not  inſt  menybut  ſinner
to
repentance,  Let  vstherforewith  all  our  hearts  come  vato  Chrilt,
and  belecue  in  him,  and  that  by  the  faith  of  Chriſt;  thatis,with  a
faith  ioyned  with  hope,  loue,  and  new  obedience.  Theoſhall  the
promiſeof  pardon  and  life  everlaſting  bee  given  to  vs.  Vpon  this
20  ground,  perſons  in  deſpaire,and
grieuous  offenders,may  ce  a  plain
wayto  helpe  and  ſuccour  them
.  For  the  worke  of  the  law
dingvs
vnderſinone,by  themerey
of  God,tends  to  ourſalua-
tioo/if  we  will  viethe
meaves,
Laſtly,  Pa»  faith,the  promile  is  made  not  to
onethat  be-
t4  leeveth  according
toany  faith  of  his  owne,.  but  to
them  that  are
true  belecuers  by  the  faith  of  Chriſt.
T  bereforecuery  maoſhal  not
bee  faved
in  hisowne  faith  and  religion,  but  oncly  they  chatare  of
5:1
thefaith  of  Chrit.
ho  |  2]  For  before  faith  came,  we  were  kept  under  the  law,  and
fout  wp  onto  faith  whuch  ſhould  afterward  be  renealed.
24  W
re  the  law  was  our  ſchoole-maſter  to  Chriſt,  that
we  might  be  wade  righteous  by  faith,
NINO
25  But  after  that  faith  is  come,  wee  are”  no  more%nder  the
35  [chaole-maſter.
Paul  inthe  r9,verſe  had  ſaid,  that  the  law  war
for  tranyre/ſions,  till
the  ſrede  come,  ro  which  the  promiſe  was  made,  And'beerebee  makes  a
more
largedeclarationof  his  owne  meaning.”  The  furme'of  ull
40  that  hefaith  may  be'reduced  to  acompariſon
of  things  vnlike,on
this  manner;  Before  the  comming
of  faith,we  were  vodertbe  do-
minion  of  Moſes  Jaw  3  bot  after  faith  was  come,  wee  were  =
