---
page: 190
pdf_page: 212
---
198
Chap.3-
pf
A  Commentarie
vpow
befirtpartofthe
copariſon  is
amplified  by  a
dgylle  Grnilitad
T  IRAN
he
the  law
03.  ens
25.verſe.
is  ip  the
part  ofthe  compariſon
ſter,v.  24.  the
Faith]  Thatis;theGoſpelor,the
ineofremillion  of  ſinnes
in  the  fleſh.
everlaſting  by  Chriſh,exhibited
and  life
CEE  een  natatewandchoce  afchuraiieg
Law]  T  bat  is,  the  Ren  Den
ef  A
IREe  Ceremoniall,  and  partly
Tudici
Kept
]  Compalled  or  guarded.  Becauſe  the  law  before  Chriſt  is
ies  rl  lewes  as  a  guardof  armed  men,  to  inclole  and
them,  that  they  ſhould  not
from  God,  and  hom  ther
_  to  him,  vato  the  (innes;idolatries,and  ſuperſtitions  ofthe
Yuto
the  faith)  That  istill
the  faith  come.
ly
Afterward  rexealed  }  From  the  creation
to  the  law,  the  Church
ofGodwasin  one
zand  thereſtof  the  world  belide'wasno
peopleof  God.  Fromthe
law  till  Chriſt,the  Charch  of  God  was
incloſed  inthe  nation  of  the  lewes,  and  all  the  world  belide
no
Church  or  people  of  God.  And  this  diſtiaRioa  of  a
andno  40
people,ſtood
ſometime  after  the  comming  of  Chrilt.
Adarth.  10,5,
Go  not  into  the way  of  the  Gentiles,  and  into  the  cuter
of  the  Samaeritanuen
ter  ye  not.  Aﬀtertheaſcenſion
of  Chriſt,thisdiftiation
ended:  be-
cauſethemy
fterie
of  mans  redemption  wasthen  more  plataely  re-
it  began  then  to  bereucaled  to  the  whole  world,Colsf,  15
1-26,27,  and  Rew,16.25:
T  has  wee  fee  that  thelaw  ſerued  for  tranſgreſſions  :  becaule  it
was  fo  the  [ewes
asa  guard  to  keepe  them  in  the  compalle  of  their
—  not  away  tO
tranſgreſſions.
Thevſe.  This
ſhewes  the
e  of  our  corroption,and
that  1,
the  very  frame  of  our  heart  iscuill
that
the  Lord  mult
be  faine
£0  ſet  hislawes  about  vs  as  a  guard  of  armed  men,to  keep
vs  that
we  fine  not,
Apgaine,  here  wee  ſee  the vie  of  Gods  lawes,  which  ſcrue  topre-
uent,reſtraine,and
cut  off  (iane,  into  which
otherwiſe  men  would  53
fall,vnleſſe  they  were  compalled  and  guarded  by  lawes.  Some  ob-
ie  for  freedome
of  will,  oa  this  maner:  If  thelawes  of  God  can-
—  —————————
:  therefare
kept,  _—  Themwor
or  firſt  part  of  the  reaſon,
is  not
true.  For  thereare
vſes  ofthe  lawes  of  God,the  the  pr”  1-2  4
them  :  for  they  ſerue  torellraine,  and  to  preuent
and  to  keepe  menin  order;at
the  lealt  outwardly.  51
An
