---
page: 191
pdf_page: 213
---
the  EpifMNe  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.3.
"199
An  other
vſc  of  rhe  Law  of  God,  wasto  conclyde-and'  hut
vpthelewes  into  the  vaitie  of  one  faith  and  religion.  For  this
cauſethe  lewes  bad  but  one  Temple,  on  Mercy-leat,  one  high
Prielt,  &c.  Hence  it  followes,that  in  a  godly  and  Chriſtian  Com-
5  Mon-wealth  where  true  religion  is  eflabliſhed,there  may  be  notol-
leration  of  any  otherceligion,  For  that  which  is  the  end  of  Gods
laws,mu(t  alſo
be  the  end  of  all  good  laws
in  all  Common-wezlths
=_
kingdomes,namely,to  ſhut  vp  thepeople  intorhevnity  ofone
cloſed,  Cant.q.12,  avincyard
bedged  in.l/a.s.5.Pſal80.1;.And  here
we  {ce  whatis  the  bedge  or  wall  of  this  garden,orvineyard:  name-
ly,the
regiment
or  policy
of  Meſ-:;
by  a  threefold  kind  of  law.
T  his
admoniſheth
vs  to  reſpeR  and  with  care  to  obſerve  good  lawes  :
x5  decaulethey  are  as  it  werehedges  &  fenſes  of  all  goodocicties\:and
the  breaking  of  them  is  the  pullipg  downe  of
our  teaſe.
Where  Pas!  faith,cill  roe  faith  be  remealed,  Note,that  the  faith,  or
the  Goſpel,was  not  revealed  tothe  world;till  the  laſt  age,after  the
comming  of  Chriſt,  It  may  be  ſaid,  it  was  alwaics  revealedto  all
$0  men,  but  not  ſocleerely  as  inthele  laſt  daies.  Aw.  ltwas  notreuea-
led  ro  all,cither  darkly  or  cleerely,  before  the  comming  of  Chriſt  .
Al  14.  16.God  ſuffered  the  Gentiles  to  walke  in  their  owne  water  Eph.2,
12.they  were  witbout  God,and  without  Chriſt,  Rom.1  5.10,  Panl  prea-
ched  where  Chriſt  was  not  ſomuch  ar  named.  Hence  it  followes,  that
25  the  Vocation  otmen  to  life  everlaſting
\.is  not  voiverlall  :  becauſe
Chrift  was  never  voiuecrſally  revealed.  Neither  is  mans  Redemp-
tion  voiverſall  in  reſpect  ofthe  whole  world,  For  Redemption  by
Chriſt  was  not  revealed  to  all  nations  before  the  comming  of
Chrilt  :  and  a  benefit  tobe  apprebended  by  faith,it  it  bevaknown,
20  is  no  benefit,  Laſtly,  it  is  erronious  that  ſome  teach,  namely,  that
grace  |  ———  isvniucrſall:  thatis,that  the  powerto  belecue
1m  Chrilt,aod  the
power  to  turne  to  Godiif  men  will,  is  generally
given  to  all,  But  chis  cannot  be  :  becauſeit  is  not  giventoall
men,
fo  much  as  to  heare  ot  Chrilt,and  coknow  him.
35
Seeing  faithis  now  come,  it  may  bee  demaunded,  what  is  the
guard  whereby  weare  kept  nuw?  Avuſw.  The
precepts  of  the  mo-
rall  law.  Thefayings  of  the  wiſe  are  as  nailer  Or  ſtakci  faftened  torange
men  in  the  cm  of  their  owne  dveties,  Eceleſ.  12.  14.  A»
gaine,  the  peace  of  God,  or  the  a(furance  of  our  reconciliation
4  with  God,  isa  guard,to  keepe  our  hearts  and  ſenſes  in  Chrilt,F
byl.
4.7.  If  this  will  not  doethe  deed,  God  Bathin  ſtore  hiscorredti  -
ans  and  jidgements,to  bee  asan  hedgeto  hedgevs  in,  Hoſes  —  =
'hi
