---
page: 192
pdf_page: 214
---
200
Chap.3.
A  Commentarie  pou
T  his  becing  (o,0ur  duty  is  toguard  and  incloſe  ourfelues,{j
our  hearts,  Prov.4.23.  andallthe  ſenſes  and  powers  of  —__
P/al.141.3.by  the  wholeſome  precepts,aod  connfells  of  God.Can-
ſidering  we  lie  open  to  ſo.many  enemics,we  ſhould  contioually  be
armedand  fenſed  from  the  head
to  the  foote,Epb.s.  13.  otherwiſe  5
we  ſhallvpon  every  occaſion  be  overturned.
Tocome  tothe
24.v.thelewes  might  haply  ſay,  Secing  we
are  thus  kept  and  ſhut  vp  by  thelaw,  what  meancs  bave  we  of
comfort  and  of  faluation?  Theanſweris  made,the  /aw  is  further  owr
ſchoolemaſter.  Here  by  ſchoo/emaſter,  vader(land  one;that  teacheth  to
lictle  children  or  Petits,the  firlt  radimentsor  elements,  A.B,C,
And  thelaw  is  «/choo/emaſter  to  Chriſt,for  two  cauſes.  One,  becauſe
it  points  out  and  ſhadowesforth  voto  vs  Chrilt,  by  bodily  rudi-
ments  of  ceremonies  and  facrifices.
The  ſecond  is,  becauſe
the  law,  ſpecially  themorall  law,vrgeth  and  compelleth
men  to  1  5
oe  to  Chriſt,  Forit  ſhewes  v3  our  (innes,  and  that  without  reme-
:  itſhewesvsthe  damnation  that  is  due  vato  vs\:and  by  this
meanes,  itmakes
vs  deſpaire  of  ſaluation  in  reſpect  of  our
(elves:
&  thus  it  inforceth  vs  to  ſecke  for  helpe  out  of  our  ſelues  in  Chriſt,
T  he  lawis  then  our  ſchoolemalter
notby  the  plaine  teaching,
but  6
by  ſtripes
and  corretion.
lathis  verſe,  Paxifets  downethemanner  and  way  of  our  fal-
vation,  which  is  00  this  manner;firſt,  the  law
res  vs  by  bum-
bling  vs\:then  comes  the  Goſpeland  it  (tirres
ith,  And  faith
wroughtinthe  heart
ds  Chrilt  for  jultification,  ſanfibi-  25;
cation,  and  glorification,  Pas/ſets  this  forth  by  a  fit  limilitude.
T  hey  that  would  betheſeruants  and  children  of  God,  muſt  come
into  the  (choole  of  God,and  be
taughtof  him,  In  this  ſchoole  are
two  formes,and  two  maſters.  In  the
frlt  forme,  the  teacher  and
maſter
is  the  law,  And  heteacheth  men  to  know  their  (inves,  and  3%
their  deſerued  damnatio,&
he  cauſcth  ys  to  deſpaire  of  our  Galuati-
on  in  reſpeR
of  our  ſelues.  And  when  men  have  bin  wellſcboo-
led  by  the  law,
and  are  brought  toacknowledge  their  linnes,  and
that  they  are  (laues
of  ſinneand  Satan  ;  then  malt  they  be  taken
vp  to  an  higher  forme,  and  be  taught  by  an-  other  {choolema-  35
ſter,  which  is  Faith,  orthe  Goſpel.  Thelefſon  of  the  Golpelis,
that  men  aftcrthey
are  humbled,  mult  fly  tothe  theone
of  grace,
_  in  Cu  _
with  all  olrhoah  turne  9——_—  ithat,
may  be  iullifed,and  glorified..  VVhen  we  have  by  the  tea-
ching  ofthis  ſecond  malter,  learned  this  good  letlop,  we  arebe-  4*
come  children  and  ſeruantsof  God.
By  this  thenit  ismagifeſt,  that  there  are  two  forts  of  bo
