---
page: 215
pdf_page: 237
sortable_pagination_id: "215"
---
223
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap.z  %
grace.  Butthis  doQrineisa  fiQtion  of  the  braineofman.  7obnthe
Bapti#t,  Mart  .3.11,  makestwo  baptizers,  himſclfe,and  Chriſt;and
hee  diftinguiſheththeir  ations  :  bis  owne  ation  is,  to  waſh  with
water;6&  the  ation  of  Chriſt  is,to  waſh  with  the  H.Ghoſt,  This  di-
5s  flinRio  be  wold  not  have
made,  if
heby  the  waſhing  of  water  had
conferred  the  holy  Ghoſt  7.
laith,  Chriſt  ſanttifierb  his  Church
by
the  waſhing  of  water  through  tht
word,Epheſ.  5.26,  Baptilme  therfore
doeth  not  conferre  grace,becauſethe  body  is  waſhed  with  water  :
but  becauſe  when  it  is  waſhed,  the  word  of  promiſe  is  beleeved,
10  and  received.  The  Apoſtles
are  called,  fe/low-worker:  with  God,  1.
Cor.3.9.and  yet  inthe  worke  of  regeneration,  andio  giving  of
life,
they  arenotanythiog,verſe7.Peter  ſaith  direRly,thatibe  waſting  4-
way  of  the  filth  of  the
fleſp  doeth  not  ſane  but  the  ſtipulation  that  a  good  con«
ſcience  makes  to  God,  1,Pet.3.21,  Theworkeof  creationis  from  God
45  immediatly,  andonely  :  now  regeneration  isa  worke  of  creation:
and  thereforeit  isof  God  immediatly,  and  not  immediatly  from
the  Sacrament  and  mediatly  from  God,  The  fleſh  of  Chrilt  is
elevated  and  exalted  aboue  the  condition  of  all  creatures  :  never-
theleile,  vertue  to  giuelife  is  notin  the  fleſhot  Chrilt,butin  the
20  godhead:  muchletſethen  (hal  the  Sactamentshave  vertueinthem
to  conferre  grace.  Faith  isſaid  to  iuſtifie,  yet  not  by  his  owne  ver-
tue:  for  it  doth  not  cauſe  curiuſtiftication,but  ſerueasa  meanes  to
apprehend  it,  when  itis  cauſed  by  God:  how  then  ſhall  the  ſacra-
ments  cauſe  juſtification  ?  Laſtly  ,  if  the  outward  waſhingſdf  the
25  body  beecleuated  aboue  bis  naturall  condition  ,  in  the  admini-
ſtration  of  baptilme,  thenſo  oft  as  the  outward  element  is  viedin
any  Sacrament;  there  is  amiracle  wrought  :  and  Minilters  of  Sa-
crarvents  are  workers  of  miracles,which  may  not  beſaid.
Againe,their  doQrineis  erroniousiin  that  they  teach,  that  the
30  outward  at  in  the  Sacrament
performed  by  the  Miviiljer,  confers
grace,where  there  is  no  gift  of  faith  to  receiue  that  which  is  con-
terred:  contrary  to  that  ſaying,  /obn  1.12.  Ar  many
as  receinedbim,  be
awe  this  power  to  be  the  ſonnes  of  God.  Indeed  they  (ay,there  mult  bee
faith  and  repentance  to  diſpoſe  the  party:  but  this  diſpolition  ſerues
35  onely  to  take  away  impediments,  and  not  toinable  vs  to  receiue
that  which  God  giueth.
Thevſe.  We  mull  not  thioke  it  ſufficient  thatwcecome  to  the
Church,  heare  Gods  word,and  pray,  contenting  our  ſelues  in  the
worke  done-  Forthus  (hal  we  deceiue  our  ſelues:  but  in  doing  thele  -
40  acsof  religion,
we  mult  in  our  hearts  turnevato  God,and  by  taith
imbrace  his  promiſes:  otherwiſe  the  belt  actions  we  dge  ſhall  bee
ypprofitable  vato  vS,Heb.4  2,
A  gaine,
