---
page: 216
pdf_page: 238
sortable_pagination_id: "216"
---
ACommentarie  you
Chap.3.
-224
ofthe  elementia  the  Sacrament donotcon-
Againezifthevſing
ferre  grace,  then  bee  alſured,that  charmes,and  ſpels,bethe  wordes
but  by  diz-
vs  good,
ſo  good,  haueno  vertue  in  them  to  doe
neuer
bolicall  —_—
imprint  a  charaQter  or
baptiſme
laſt  queſtion  is,  whether
The
*  enSKe  in  the  ſoule,which  isncuer
out?  Anſwer,  In  Scrip-
of  diſtinRion,one  vilible,  the  other
ture  thereis  atwo-fold  marke
-  inviſible,  Of  thefirſt  kinde  was  the  blood  of  the  Paſchall
io-the  firſt  Paſſeouer:  for  by  it  the  firſt  borne
of  the  Iſraclites
weretnarked,
when  the  firſt  borne  of  the
Of  this  kinde
is  Baptiſme:  for  by  it  Chriſtian  people
guiſhed  from  lewes,  Turkes,  and  Infidels.  The  inviſible  marke
istwo-folde.  The  firſt  is,  theeternall  eletion  of  Godz2.7iwethie
2.19.  The  foundation
of  Ged  ſtands  ſure,
and  bath  this  ſeale,  The  Lord
knowes  who  erebis.  By  vertueof  this,  Chriſt  faith,  /  know
my  ſheepe,  ts
Tobn  10.  And  by  this
the  EleR
of  all  nations  are  marked,  Apec.  7.
and  9.  Theſecond  os
OI  »  which
is
elſe  but  the  imprinting
of  the  image
of  God  in  the  ſoules
of  men:
and  by  this  beleeuers  arefaidto  bee  ſealed,  Epheſ,2.13.2.{o-1,22,
And
baptiſme
is  a  meanes  toſcethis  markein  vs;  becauſcitisthe  4,
lauer  of  regeneration.
The  Papiſts
have  deviſed  another  worke,  which  they  call  the
Indeleble  charatter  :  andthey  make  it  to  bee  a  diſtiaR
thing
from
regeritration  :  andthey  ſay  it  isimprinted  ia  theſoules
of  all  men,
good  and  bad,  and  remains  with  them when  they  are  condemned,  ;;
What  this  marke  ſhould  bethey  cannot  tell;  ſome  make  it  a  quali
tie:  ome,arelationzbutindeed
there  is  no  Scripture  forit,the  truth
iz,it  is  a  meere  ion  ofthe  braine  of  man.
T  he  ixt  point  to  bee  handled,concernes  the  neceſlitie  of  Bap-
tiſme  Herewe
mult  put  difference  between  the  covenant
of  grace  zz
and  baptiſme,  which  is  the  confirmation  or  ſeale
of  the  covenant.
To  make  coucnant  with  God,and  to  be  in  the  (aid  coucnant;,is
ab-
ſolutely  neceſſary  toſaluarion  :  for  vale(ſe  God  be  our  God,
and  we
the  ſcruants  of  God,
we  cannot  beſaued.
Baptiſme  it  ſelteis  nece(larie  in  part:  firlt.in  reſpeR  ofthe  com-  35
maundement  of  God,  who  hath  enioyned  vsto  vicit:  ſecondly,
in  reſpet  of  our  weakenelle  ;  who  have  need  of  all  belpes  that
may  conftirmeour  faith,  Yet  Baptiſme  is  not  Gmply  necellary  to
ſaluationy  for  the  want
of  Baptilme  (when  it  cannot  be  had)doth
notcondemne  z  butthecontemptot  it  when  it  may  be  bad  ;  and  4
the  contempt  is  pardonable,  if  men  repeat  afterward:  for  the
chileren  of  belceuing  parents  arc  borne  holy,  1.Corimh.  7.  14  and
theirs
