---
page: 195
pdf_page: 217
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.3.
293
into  ſtore-hovſes  by  certaine  ouerſeers,  and  they  ſhould  diſpoſe  of
change  ences  the  Miniſter,  2.  Chron.  1,  Malac.;.
The  law  that  the  theefe
muſt  either  reſtore  fourefold,or  be  a  bond-
man,concernes  Canaan,and  thoſecountreys.  In  Europe,(ſpecial-
5  ly  in  the  Northern  and  Weſtern  parts,)a  ſtraighter  law  is  required.
the  people  aremuch  giventoidleneſſe,  and  conſequently  to
robbing  :  and  they  arcof  fiercediſpolition,
&  therefore  with  theft
ioyneviolence,&  diſturbance  of  the  common
.  And  tor  this
cauſe(excepting  in  ſome  caſes)theft  ispuniſhed
with  death.  And
10  this  multnot  ſceme  bard,  For  cuen  the  lewes,  when  the  theft  was
aggrauated  with  other  circutnſtances,  might  puniſh  it  with  death,
2.Seav,12.6,  Anditisinthe  power  of  the  Magiltrate,  when  finnes
Now  |  _  —
foundation  and  —_  moral,
x5  are  not  abrogat
are
.  For  the  better  diſcerning
of
l  them,  give  rwonotes,  The  PAiebi  :  Ifaindiciall  lewſeruedi-
realy  and  irnmediatly,to
guard  and  fenſe  any  one  of  the ten  com-
mandernentyjin  themaine  ſcope  and  end  thereof,  it is  morall  in  e-
t  becauſe  the  end  and  vſe  of  it  is  perpetuall.  [
examples.  It  isthe  law  of  God;that  hee
of  the  !1-
raclires
that  ſhall
intiſe
them  to  goe  and  worſthipother  gods,ſhal  be
putts  death;  D  eve.  13.6,  This
law  ſerues  to  maintaine  and  vphold
the  firſt  ommandement,theend  wheredf  istoinioyne  vsto  take
the  true
God  for our  God:  and  this  end  is  molt  neceiſaric  both  for
25  'Godeglory,and  for  theſaluation  of  men  :  and  therfore  whatlgever
thing  orperſoti  overturneth  or  aboliſheth  this  end,  it  mult  beecuc
of
trotytheſociety
of  men.  Here  note  by  the  way,that  they  which
have  beene  borne,  baptized,and  brovghtvp  among'v3.and  yet  at-
terwafd  become  Maſle-prieſts,  and  leekes  malicioully  and  obltinar-
30  y,withour  cealing  to  fedace  our  people,  deſerve  in  this  reſpeR,to
'beputto
death
v1  Þxample*2;  Thou  fo1lt  wet  fer  a  witch  to  line,  Exodus  22,18,
This
hw  againeivs  fenſe  totbefirft-rommandement.  For  Wir-
ehievrenonnce
Godand  humane  fociftis  f  and  therefore
ate  wor-
»  5  thily
ur  off,  choughthey  docno  hurt;  even  becaule  they  make  a
deatb;Leni',  14,  16.  Vaderltand  this  law  of-twadifeft  aſworo  Move
blaſphemies;thut:
hrovþh  Godyasthtwordddrmporet  'and
40  then  ibi#X  nin
torde  third  commarnidement?  For  Gods
name  may  in  no  wiſe  beabuſed  avd-troad  viidier  foot:  and  there-
the  very
God,  voto  becut  off,”  T  his  is
toro  dlaſphtmmcrs  pearcing
aw
O  3
Ve
