---
page: 218
pdf_page: 240
sortable_pagination_id: "218"
---
Chap.3+
A  Commentarie
pou
226
nor  fit  example  for  itin  the  word  of  God,
is  neither  precept,
The  example  of  Zipporaisalleadged,  Exod.4.28,  whocircunmci-
ſed  her  child.  Anſwer,  The  exampleis  many  waics  diſcommends.
ble.  For  ſheedidit  in  the  preſence  ofher  husband,whea  there  wag
no  need:  ſhee  did  it  haſte,  that  ſhee  might  haveprevented  herhul-  5
for  ſhecalt  the  foreskin  at  thefeet  of  24s-
band:  ſhe  diditin  anger:
ſes.  Anditſeemes  ſhe  was  no  belecuer,but  ameere  Midianite.  For
ſhee  contemned  circumciſion,  when  ſhee  called  her  huſband
4  man
of  bleed,  by  reaſon  of  the  circumciſion  of  the  child,  ver(e  25,  and
in  thisreſpeRitſeemes,ſoſe-  eitherput  her  away,
or  ſhee went  a.  10
-  way  when  he  went  downeto  Egypt-
Againe,
it  is  obieed,that
priuate  perſons  may  teach:
and  ther.
fore  Coptibe.  Anſwer,  Prigateteachiog,and  Minilteriall
are  diſtin  in  kinde,
as  the  authoritic  of  a  maſter  of  a  family,
diſtin  in  kinde  from  the  authoritie
of  a  Magiltrate,  A
private
pare  afather  or  maſter,  when  hee  teacheth  the  word  of  God,
ce  doethit  by  right  of  amaſter  or  father,  and  hee  is  moouedts
docit  by  thelaw
of  charitie:  but  Miniſters  whea  they  teach,
are
moouedto  teach  by  ſpeciallcalling,  and  they  doe  it  with  autho-
ritic,  as  Embaſladours  inthe  roome  of  Chrilt,  z.  Cormebianr,s,21,  0
Againe,  though  a  priuateman  might  diſpenſe  the  wordaloae:  yet
docth  it  not  tollow,  that  hee  may  admini(ter  both  the  ward  and
the  ſcale  thereof:  both  which  arc  ioyned  in  baptilme;  and  ioyntly
adminiſtred.
al
Theſecond  queſtion  is,  whether  baptiſme  adminiſtred  by  a  wic-yg
ked  man  oran  heretike,  be  indeed  true  baptiſme  ?  Anſwer,  If  the
ſaid  partie  bee  admitted  to  (tand  in  the  roome  ofatrue
paltour,  or
miniſter,  and  keepe  theright
io  baptizing,  accordiog  tothe
ioſtitutioo,it  is  true  baptiſme.  T  he  Scribes
and  Phariſees  the  chie-
felt  doAors  of  the  lewes,werenot  of  the  tribe  of  Lews,but  of  ather  y
tribes  :  and  they  wereindeedeueathe  buſt  of  them,  but
and  apoſtataes,and  conſequently  to  be  depoſed,  and  excommu-
picate:  nevertheleile,becauſe  they  were  in  theplace  of  goodtes
chers,and  fate  in  Moſer  chaire,that  is;taught  ſundry  points  of  24+
/es  doAtrine:  therefore  Chriſt  ſaith,  Heare  thew,  Matth,  23.1,  And  5}
to  this  effet  was  the  concluſion  of  the  Churches  io  Aﬀeica,  &
gainl(t  Cypriav.
Vpon  the  ſame  ground,  the  ſame  anſwer  is  to  be  made;
if  it  bet
demaunded  ,  whether  baptiline  adminillred  by  himthat  cannot
preach,  bee  of  force  or  no?  It  were  indeed  to  bee  wiſhed,  thatallf
Minilters  of  holy  things,  were  preachersof  the  word  :  neyerthe-
le{le;  it  ſuch  aspreachnot;  (tand  inthe  roome  of  lawfull  papa
an
