---
page: 197
pdf_page: 219
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap.3.
255
new  Teſtament,  ſeciogthe  regiment  and  law  of  Moſer  is  abroga-
ted?  Aw.  The  ——  guide  is  the  doArineof  the  ber  7
and  of  the  Golpel.  lt  istherefore  called  the  rod  and  the  ftaff:  of  God,
P/al.2  3.  and  the rod  of  bis  mmatb,{/ai.  1  1.4.  The  inward  guide,is  the
g  Spirit  of  Gadzwriting  thelawes  of  God  in  our  hearts,  and  by  them
guiding  vs,and  being  a  law  vato  vs,Rom.8.  3,14.  Thirdly,God  by
manifold  afflitions  nurtures  and  ſchooles  vs,  partly
to  prevent
fiones  to  comeand  partly  to  humblevs  for  that  which  is  paſt,  1.
Cor.t1.32.lere,31-18.
10
Thevſe  Sceing  the  law  is  abrogated(as  |  haueſaid)we  muſt  be
a  free  and  voluntary  people;ſeruing  God  not  of  conltraint  but  wil-
lingly,as  if  there  were
no  law  to  coampellvs.  A  nations  ſbal!  flew  as
waters
to  the  mownt  aine  of  the  Lord,  {ſz.2.2.  Thy  people  ſhall  come  willing-
ly  in  the  day  of
aſſembly,Pſal.1  10,3,  Inthe  daye:  of  lobn  Baptiſt,the  kong-
15  dow:
of  heawen
ed  violence,  [erenne  (aith,  They  ſhallteach  enery  man
bis  nrighb
our  and  bis  brother,  Tere.  31.31.
men  ſhall  learne
freely  without  compulſion,or  calling  vpon.  Hereisthe  fault  of  our
times.  Many  lay  in  heart  to  Chriſt,D
epart  from  v;,we  will
none  of  thy
wejesz  and  many  againe  are  zealous  for  the  things  of  this  life,  but
20  vor  enp>  mee.
Gods  worſhip,  and  the  {alvation  of  their
ſoules,they  arencitberhote  ner  colde.  This  negligence  and  ſlack-
neſſcis  full  of  danger,and  therfore  with  ſpeed  to  be  amended.  For
curſed  ts  be  that deet  >  the  works  of  God  neglygently  :  and  the  Lord  will
\c  {ante  patbns,
26  For  yee  are  all  the  ſonnes  of  God  by  faith  in  Chriſt  1eſus.
27  For  all  yee-  that  are  baptized  into  Chriit,  bane  put  on
Chrilt,
28  There  «  neither  Jew  nor  Grecian  :  there  is  neither  bond
30
nor  free.  :  there  us  neither  male  nor  female  :
yee  are  all  one  in
Cbrift  leſus.
Paul  had  ſaid  before,verſe  25.that  the  beleeuing  lewes,after  the
35
publiſhing  ofthe  Goſpel,were  no  mcre  vader  the  law  as  voder  a
hoolematter  :  In  this  25.  verſe  he  renders  a  reaſon  hereot  :  and  ic
may  beframed  on  this  manner:  If  wee  lewcs  were  (ill  voder  che
law  as  vnder  a  Schoolemaſter,  then  we  ſhould  be  till  after  the  ma-
nerof  ſervants  :  but  weare  not  after  the  manner  of  ſeruants:  be-
40  cauſe  wee  arechildren:  for  euen  ye  Galatians,  and  that  all  of  you
are  children  of  God  ,  not  by  Circumciſion,  or  by  the  keeping  of
the  law,  but  by  taith  in  Chriſt,  Againeztbat  they  are  __
O  4
