---
page: 0
pdf_page: 22
---
A  Commentarie  pon
Chap.r.
IO
peace,an
graceand
ot  himlclfe,by  tbe  Sopgzand  Chriſt
pre
gives  it  vnto  men  from  the  Father,  Furthermore  Chrilt  is  deſcri-
be
bed  by  his  properiy,Owr  Lord,  and  by  hiseffects  ip  the  next  verſe.
T  he  vſe.  Wheras  Paw/  begins  bis
prajer  with  grace,welearne  that
beginning  of  allgood  things  in  .
Grace  in  God  js  the  firlt  cauſe  and
vs.  El:  ron  ts  of  grace  liom.  3'1.v.$.Yocationto  God  te  of
grace;2.Tim,1,q
Faub
is  of  grace,Pbil.  1.29.  Inſtification  is
freely  by
grace;Rom.  3.2.4.  Lowe
is  by
grace,  t.lobn  4.9.  Enery  good  incluuations  of  grace,P  bil.2,  13.  Enc-
ry  good  worke  us  of  grace,
Exzcb.36.23.Ephe.2.10,  Life  enerlatting  ir  of
grace;Rom.  6.23.  To  auoide  any  evill  is  theleaſt  good,and  every
good  is  of  God,  It  may  beſai
will  in-man  is  the  cauſe  and  be-  vo
ioning  of  fome
thiogs.  Anſwer:  In  the  creating  of  imprin-
—_  oftha  fie(t  yy,  Tm  is  nocauſeatall,buta  ſubie&t
to  receiuethe  grace  given.  After  the  firlt  grace  x  amet  isan
agent  in  the  recetuing  of  the  ſecond
grace,and  in  thedoing  of  any  ;
good  worke,  Yet  this  muſt  beremembred,
that when  the  will  isan
agent;it  is  nomore:
but  an  inſtrument
of  grace;  and  gracein  God
is  properly  the  firlt,rmiddle,and
la(t  cavfe  of  gracein  vs,&
of  cuery
good  ate,  Henceit  followes,  thatthere  bee  notany  meritorious
works  that  ſerveto  prepare  men  to  their  juſtification:  and  thatthe  ,,
cooperation
of  mans  wil  with  grace  in  the
aR of
converſign,wher-
by  weareconuerted
af  God;is  but  a  fiftionof
the  braine
of  man,
La{tly,thisdoftcioe  is  thefovadation
of  humilitic:
forit  texcheth
vs  toaſcribealltograceand
ourſelves,
Secondly  welcarne,that  the  chiete  good  things  to-bee  ſought  +5
for,arethefauour  of  God  inChriſt,andthepeace  of  x  good  con-'
ſcience.  Conlider  the  example  of  Dazid,f/al.4.v/7.  &  Pſal.  73.v.
24,25.  and  of  Pex/,  whoavcountedeall  things  dung  for  grace  and
peace  in  Chriſt.  'And  the  peace  of  good  conſcience  is
as  a  guard
to  keepeour  heartsandmindes  in
Chriſt,  Pbi/  4.  7,  The  fault  of  ,,
molt  men  is,T  bey  ſpend  their  dayes  and  their-(treogth  in  ſeeking
riches,hoporg,pleafures:.  andthey  think  noton  grace  &  peace.
At-
ter  the  maner  cf  bealls,they  viethebleſlings  of
God,but  they  look
not  at  the  cauſe;namely,the  grace  of  God.  Our  dutie.  Above  all
thinggsto  ſecke
for  grace  &  peace.  Thereaſon\:true happives,which  ;  5
all  meadelire,copli{tsin  peace,andis  founded  in  grace:  they  are
{aid  to  be  happie  &  bletled  that  mourne,  &  taffer  perſecution  for
iuſtice{ake,Afarr:5.  becauſe  in  themidfl
of  their  forrows  &  miſe-
ries.they  bavethe  favour  of  God,&the  peace  of  good  conſcience,
T  birdly,in  thatgraceand  peace  are  ioyned,we  learne,that  peace  46.
without  grace  is  no  pence.  There  i4mo  peare  to  the  wicketharth  mw
Ged,)ſai  57.laſt,  T  hey  which  makea  covenant  with  hell  &  dcath,
ace.
