---
page: 221
pdf_page: 243
sortable_pagination_id: "221"
---
Ny  z-<
it
the  5  pred  tothe  Galatians.
bap.4.
thinke  they  kivefaith;dsthey  have  regeneration,  thatis;  the  in-
clination,  on{ced-of.  faith:'  Others  (ay;  that  the  faith  of  the pa-
rents\:is  alſo  thefaith
of  their  childrenrbecavſe  the  parents  by  their
de  \:hadelumcoterbomar  iobeGburchot  belowing  os
ch
$3
in
\:hurch  of
og.
reats,i3in
ſtead  of  the  profeſſion
of  faith;  To  this  Gredadopiing
I  rather  inclinez/becauſc
itis  the  ancient  and  received  doctrine
of
the  Church.
>"
—m—_
-T  birdlyyit-is
allcadged,
infants  know  not  what  is  done,
16  whenchey  are  baptized!  Anſww|'\:For  alb  this,!  baptiſme  hath  tis
vieio  them.  :  for  itisarfrale
of  che  Cbuenant  j  and  a  meanes'to
admit  them-iptothe  fellowſhipiof
be  vilible  Church  ,  whereof
forright  they  are  members.  '  Atather:  makes  purchaſſefor  him-
ſelfe  and  his  children  :  at  therrime-of-the
ſealing,  the  children  -
T  ("OA  RR
4p
17"  SNP  TINT
made
in  vaine
YU
fer
$3667;
5  8t  50  qe  1
noir
FP
.-It  may"  bee  demaundedywhether
the  childreo  of   Furkes  and
lewes  areto  bee  baptized  ?  Anſwer.  No:  becauſetbe  parents  are
foorth
of  the  Covenant.
1:
SEND
91
a  '-  Secondly,  En  ,  _  the  ebildrenof
profeiſed
iſts,are  tobe  baptized  2  A»/wer.
ons
bap»
apts
in  the  cameof  'the  Father,  Senne,  ant
anitHoly
Ghoſt.  A
though  the  Papacie  beenotthe-Charch  of  God,yetis  the  Church
of  God  hidden  inthe  Papacie;  and  to  beegathered  out  of  it  :  and
35  for  this  cauſe
baptiſme
remaines
ſtill  in  the  Church  of  Rome.  For
thiscauſe4
ROOSTER  Papilts  may'  be  bapti-
28d awo  cautians  obſeruedzthe  brit,that
the  fore{aid  parents  delire
this  baptiſme  \:the  ſecond,  thatthery  be  furetieswhich  promiſethe
education  of  the  child  in  the  true  faith.
30  Thirdly,it  may  bee  demanded,whether
the  children  of  wicked
Chriſtians,
tbat  is,of  ſuch  as  holdin  iudgement  truercligion,  and
denic  it  in'theirlives,  may  bebaptized  ?  Anſwer,  They  may  *  for  all
without  exception,that  wete  borne  of  circumciſed  tewes  (wherof
many  were  wicked)were  circumciſed.  And  we  mult  not  onely  re-
15  gardthe  next  parents,
but  alſothe  ancelſtours  :  of  whom  it  isſaid,/f
theroot  be  holy,  the  branches  areboly,  Rom.  11.  pon  this  ground,chil-
dren  borne  in  fornication;may  be  baptized;
lo  be  it,there  bee  fome
toanſwer  forthem  belidetheprrents.  Andthereisporcalon;that
the  wickedneſle  of  the  parent,  ſhould  preiudicerhechild  in  things
40  pertaining
to  life  eternal,
Laſtly,it  may-beedemaunded;  whether  the  children  of:  parents
excomnmunicate,maybeboprized?  Anſrer.:  Yea,it  there  beeany
Vos
belide
