---
page: 223
pdf_page: 245
sortable_pagination_id: "223"
---
®.  be
the  Epiſtle  tothe  Galatiays.
Ehap.3.
,  Tbethird  is,Deprecation,whereby  werare  tainereatihe
Lordin  the  name  of  Chrift,-  and  tht  molt  indaiitly  tromday  to
daystill  wee  receiue  a  comfortable  anſwer,  inthe  peace  of  cod(ci-
ence,and  ioy  ofthe  holy  Gholl.
Andforthelife  cocometheremuſtbe  twothings  in  vs:  the  fir(t
ivthepurpake  of  not  ſinning;and  it  mult  be  aliuely  and  dilin4
(e,gailyrenewedia  vs,cucn  as  we  renew  our  dayes\:tſgas  wee
may  ſay  if  wee  linne,  itis  againſt  ourpurpofe  and  reſolution.  T  he
ſecond  is,  an  endeauourto  performe  new  obcdience,  according  to
10  all  thecommandements
ot  God.  |  Theſethings  it  we  doe,  we
ſhall
|  ſhewourleluesto
he  theſeruants  of  God.”  And  ofall  theſe  things,
bapriſme  mult  le(as  it  were)a  Baily  Sermon  vntovs:  and{o  dtt  to
thinks  on  them,avoft
ax  wee  thinke  or  (peake
of  our  names  given
vs  in  Baptiſme,  This  isthe  doQtrine  of  Pa«/who  teacheth  vs  that
15  we  muſt  beeconformable  tathedeath  and  reſarrection  of  Chriſt,
becauſe  we  haue  been  baptized,  Rom.s.  3:4.
yes
iſmeintothename  ofthe  Father,  &c.muſtteach
vs.that
we  muſilearne
to  know  &  acknowledge  Gadaright;
that
is,toackonowledge  him
to  beour  God,and  Father
in  Chrilt:  toac-
20  knowledge  his
preſence,  and  therefore  to  walke  betore  him;  to.  ac-
knowledge
his  prouidence,and  therforeto  calt  our  care  on  himy  to
—_—  his  goodnelle  and  mertie,  in  the  pardan\:and  tree
forgiueneilc
ofour  linnes.
5rug
93S
3Þ142i
+'  Thirdly,  our  baptiſme  muſt.  bee  vata  vs  a-(tore-houſe  of  all
2;  comfort  in  thetime  of  our  need.  1f  thou.  bee  tempted  of  the  di-
uell,  oppoſe  again(t  him  thy  Baptiſme,  in  which  God  hath  promi-
ſed  and  ſealed  vnto  thee  the  pardon  of  thy  (innes,  and  lite  cuer-
laſting,”  If  thou  bee  troubled  with  doubtings,and  weakenetJe  of
faith,condider  that  God  hath  giuenthcean  earnelt  and  pledge
of
20  bis  lovipg  kindneſleto  thee,  Wee  vie  often  to  looke  vpon  the
willes  of  our  fathers  apd  grand-fathers,  that  wee  may  be  reſolued
in  matters  of  doubt  :  and  ſo,  often  loovke  vpon  the  will  of  thy
heaucnly  Father  ſealed  and  deliucred  to  thee  in  thy  baptilme,  and
thou  ſhalt  the  better  be  reſolued'in  the  middelt  of  all  thy  daybts.
$5  If  thoulie  vader  apy  croiſe  or  ealamitie,bave  recourſe  to  thy  bap-
tilme,in  which  God  promiſedto  bethy  God,and  of  this  promiſe
hee  will  not  faile  thee.
Laltly,if  aman.would  beea  (tudentin  divivitic,  let  him  learne
and  practiſe  his  baptiſme.  Commentaries  a@peedtull  to  the  (tu-
©  die  of  theScriptures  :  and  the  belt  Comanegtarie  to  a  mans  owne
felfe  is  his  owne  baptilme.  For  it  a  man  have  learned  to  know
ought  and  to  practiſe  his  @wne  baptiſmehe  (hall  the  better  be  able
—,
ca
