---
page: 225
pdf_page: 247
sortable_pagination_id: "225"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.z.
even
o,  allthe  Saints  in  heaven,  and  all  beleevers  vpon  earth,ha-
ui  >"  Ima  ſpirit
of  Chriſt  dwelliovg  inthem,are
ali  one
in
Theſecond  queſtion  is,how  are  all  beleeuers  made  one  with
$  Chrilt  ?  tf.  By  adonation
on  Gods  part  whereby  Chriſtis  gi-
ven  vnto  vs:
a  receiuing  on  our  part.  The  donation  is  wheer-
by  Chriſt  ismade  ours  for  right,ſo  as  a  man  way
ſay  truly,  Chriſt
is  mine  with  all  his  benefits.  Of  this  donation  4.  things  are  to  be
obſerued,  The  firſt  is;that  Chriſt  himſelfe  and  whole
Chriſt  is  gi-
20  uento  vs,  Forhere
we  areſaid  toput  on  Chriſt.  Here  a  diſtinction
mult  be  obſerued\:the  Godhead  of  Chriſt,  ixgiuento  vs,not  in  re-
(pect  offubſtancewhich  is  incommunicable,but  onely  in  reſpect
of  operation.
But  the  very  fleſh  or  manboodof  Chrilt  is  really  gi-
uen  to  the  belecuing  beart./ob.6,  54.  56.By  it  we  receiuecternal  life
15  from  the
by  it  God  is  ioyned  to  man,%  man  to  God.
The  ſecond  is,thatChrill
gives
his  merit  and  ſatisfaction  to  them
that  belecue.
And  this
ſatisfaction
imputed,  is  the  couer  whereby
our  (innesare  couered,P/al.32.1.and  the  white  robes  dipped  ivthe
blood  of  Chriſt.  Rev.7.14.T  hirdly,  Chriſt  givesthee
ieof  his
20  ſpiritto  makevs  cenformableto  himſelfe  in  holines  and  newnes  of
life  :  and  thus  be  mekesr  ws  put  off
the  old  man,  and  put  on  the  new  man,
created
after  Godin  righteonſneſſe
and  bolines,  Eph.  4.  24,  The  fourth
is,that  the  word  preachedand  theſacraments,  are  (as  it  were)  the
hand  of  God,whereby  he  exhibits
and  giues  Chrilt  vato  vs  with  al
25  his  benefits.
Ofour  receiving  of  Chriſt  given  by  God,  two  things  mult  bee
obſerued:  one  is,  that  wee  mult  therereceiue  Chrilt,  where  God
offersand  gives  himythat  is,ia  the  word  and  Sacraments,  The  e-
cond  is,that  faith  is  our  band,wbereby  we  receive  Chriitzand  this
30  receiving  is  done  by  a  ſupernatura!l  aQt  of  theminde,  whereby  we
beleeve  Chrilt  with  his  benefits  to.be  ours,  /obn  1.12,  Thus  welce
how  we  are  one  with  Chriſt,  and  Chriſt  with  vs.
Communion  with  Chrilt  is  when  wee  haue,poſleſſe,  andinioy
Chriſt  and  his  benefits  :  and  that  is  partly  io  this  life,and  fully  in
35  thelifetocome.  Ofthiscommunion  ſpeaks  Salomon  at  large  inthe
Song  of  Songs,and  D  avid,Pſal.45.
T  he  vſe.  In  that  weareto  put  on  Chriſt,  weeareput  io  mind  to
conlider  our  fearefull  nakedneſſe.  What  is  that  ?  Anſw.  T  here  is  a
nakednes  of  creation,  and  a  nakednes  following  the  fall.  Thena-
40  kedneſle  of  creation  is,  when  the  body  witbourall  covering,  is  in
health,  full  of  glory  and  maieſty,in  re{pect  of  other  creatures.  Na-
kednelſeariſing  of  thefall  of  man,is  ether  inward  or  outward,  In-
Q  2
ward,
