---
page: 206
pdf_page: 228
---
214
Chap.3.
A  Commentariz
p01
For  theſe  cauſes,  they  that  are  waſhed  with  water  in  baptiſme,  are
aid
to  put  on  Chriſt.  lo  the  ſame  manner  mult  other  phraſes  ben.
derſtood;as  when  it  is  ſaid,  that  baprs/mve  ſancth,1.Per.  3.21,  that  wen
muſt  be  baptized
for  the  remnſſion  of  ines,  Att  22.6.  that  we  are  buried
Rom.  6.,z.
of  Chriſt,
into  the  death
/wve
T  be  ſecond  point  concernesthe  matter  of  baptiſme.  Here  1
con-
ſider  three  things,  the  Ggae,  the  thing  (ignited,  the  Analogie  of
.both.  The  (igae,  is  partly  the  element
of  water,  Afe-  8.36,  and
partly  thecite  by  diuine  inſtitution  appertaining  to  the
element,
which  is  theſacramental  vſc  ofitin  w
tno  ARR  externall  waſhing  of  the  body  ,are  the  full  and  com»
cte
ligne  of  baptiſme.
-  Herea  queſtion  ng  mar  ogy  «m_p_
baptiſme,mu
ipping  zor
priokliog
'4  Anſwer,  n
png  at  baptiſmeof  men  of  yeares,  dipping  was  vied,
and  that  by  the  Apoſlles:  and  to  this  Pas!  alludes,Rom.6.z.  and
dipping  doeth  more  fully  repreſent  our  {pirituall  waſhing,  then
fpriakliag.  Neuertheleſſeia
cold  countrics,  andin  the  baptiſmeof
infanes  new  boroe,ſprinkling  is  to  bee  vied,and  not  dipping,  in  re-
ſped  of  their  health  and  lite.  For  the  rule  is,  Neceſſirse
and  charitie,
ſpenſe  with  the  ceremoniall
law.  Vpon  this  ground,  Dexid  did  cate
the  ſhewbread  :  Circumciſion  was  not  alwaies  the  eight  dayas
ap-
peares  by  the[ſraelites  io  the  wilderneiie:
and  for  the  ſame  cauſein
theſe  countries,dipping
may  be  omitted,though  otherwiſe  a  ſacrs-
mental  rite,  And  it  multbe  remembred,that  baptizing  ſignifiesvot  y
onely  that  waſhing  which  is  by  diving  of  the  bodie,  but  alſothat
which  is  by  ſprinkling,
T  he  thing  lign\:fied,  or  the  ſubſtance
of  baptiſme,  is  Chriſt
bimſelfe  our  Mediatour,  as  hee  gave  himſelfeto  waſh  andcleanſe
vs.  Thus  'Pax/  (aith,.that  bee  cleanſeth  bis  Church  by  the  waſhing  of  Þ  i
water,  Epbeſ.  $5.6,
The  Aoalogie,  or  proportion  of  both  is  on  this  manner.  Water
reſembles  Chriltcrucified,  with  all  bis  merits.S.  /obu  ſaith,7he  6/oed
of  Cbriit  cleanſeth  11;  from  all  our  fines,  1.10bn  1.7.  that  is,  themerit
and  efhcacy  of  Chriſt  crucified,  freeth  vs  from  our  (jones,  and  5}
from  the  guile  and  puniſhment  thereof.  Externall  waſhing  of
the  body,  reſembles  inward  waſhing  by  the  Spirit  ,
which  flands
in  iuſtificationand  ſanRification,  1.Cor.  6.11,  Tit»s.3.5;  The  dip»
piog  of  the  body,  (ignifies  mortificatioa  ,  or  fellowſhip  with
Chriſt  in  hisdeath:  the  (taying  vader  the  water,{ignifies  the  burial  ®  }  4
of  (inne  :  and  the  comming  out
of  the  water,the  reſurreRionfrom
Linne  tonewnelleof  life,Rom,  6  3,4+
ee
