---
page: 207
pdf_page: 229
---
the  Epiſtle
tothe  Galatians.
Chap.  3.
|  Fhethicd  point  concernes  theformeof  Baptilme,arr.2  8.19,
Goe  teach
all  nations,"  baptizang  them  wn  the  N  ame  of  the  Father,  exc.  1
inethe  words  thus  ;  Marke,  firſt  it  is  aid,  Teach  them,  that  is,
makethe  my  diſciples,
by  calling  them  to  beleeue  &  toreper.  Here
g  weearetoconliderthe  order  which  God  obſeruesin  making  with
manthe'couenant  in  baptiſme.  Firſt
of  all,  hee  calls  men  by  dis
word,and  commands  them  to  beleeue  and  repent:  whenthey  be-
giato  belecueand  repent,then  in  the  ſecond  place  God  makes  his
promiſe  of  mercy  and  forgivenetle  :  and  thirdly,  he  ſcales  his  pro-
x»  miſe
by  baptiſme..  This  diuine  order  Chriſt  (gnificth  when  bee
laith,make  them  diſciples  :  and  it  was  alwaies  oblerued  of  God..  Be-
forehe  made  any  couenant  with  4brehem,  and  before  be  ſealed  it
by  circumcifzon,hefaith  to  him,  lhe  _  me,und  be  vpright  ,Gew.
217.1.  andof  his  ſeed,  he  ſaith,  they  mult
firlt  doe  righteouſneſſe
and
15  \wdgement
zand  then  _—  vpen  them  all  that  be  hath  ſpoken,  Gen.
48.19.  tothe  lfraclites  hee
faith,  that  they  mutt  rwrye  and  o5\:y,aud
then  bee  willmake
all  his  promiſes  and  conenant;  good  Dent.  30.1,6,a0d
I@.1.16,17,t9.  Tothe  lewes  Peter  {aith,  Kepent  firlt,  and  then  they
ſhall  bee  baptized  for  the  remiſſion  of  ſinnes,  Alter  2,3,8,42,  And  Philip
faidrothe  Eunuch,  /fthow  beleeweit  nub  all  thy  beart,  thou  mayeſt  bee
baptized,  Ales  8.37.
The  vſe..  By\:this  order  we  ſee,  that  thecommandement  to
belecue  and  torepent,is  morelarge  and  generall,then  the  promiſe
of  mercy  in  Chriſt.  For  the  commandement  is  given  to  all  bea-
2  ers,  toturneand  belecue,and  the  promiſe  made  onely  to  ſuch  hea-
rer9,asdoe  indeede  turne  and  belecue\:therefore  itis  a  talſhood  to
__—_  that  the  promiſe  of  ſaluatioabeloopgs  generally  to  all
"a
Againe,by  this  order  it  appeares,  that  Repentance  belongs  to
$0  baptilme\:and  it  is  one  of  the  fir{t  things  that  are  required:  &ther-
foreitisfolle  to  make  Repentance  a  diſtin  meanes  of  ſaluationg
anda  diſtin  ſacrament  from  baptiſme.
Thirdly,
if  it  be  demanded,why  ſo  many  perſons  that  have  bin
baptized,  live  for  all  this,as  if  they  bad  notbin  haptized,in  the  co-
35  mon  linnes  of  the  world,like  prophane  E/a«s\:and  yet  doe  comfort
themſeluesin  their  baptiſme?  «fn,  T  hey  doe  pot  know  and  con-
ſider  the  order  which  God  vſed  io  cogenanting  with  them  in  bap-
tiſme:  but  they  deale  prepolteroully,  ouerilipping  the  comman-
dement  of
repeating&  belecuing,and  in  the  hel}  place  lay  bold  of
©  Godspromiſe  madeto  themin  baptiſme.  This  isthe  cauſe  ot  ſo
much  prophanenetle  io  the  world.
Againe,  there  bemany  pabagtngt  haue  bia  baptized,  who
ACUEr-
