---
page: 23
pdf_page: 45
sortable_pagination_id: "23"
---
anbbt  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.t.-
33
word  to  the  care:  this  is  all  they  can  doe.  T
herefore  Paw!  faith,  hee
that  plants  or  waters  is  not  any  thing,but  God  that  graeth  the  increaſe.
T  he
teacher  theo  properly  in  the  miniſtegy  of  the  new  Teſtament  to
the  very  end  of  the  world,is  Chriſt  himſelte.  This  muſt  teach  -vs
reverence  in  hearing  Gods  word,and  care  with  diligence  in  keep-
ing  of  it,  Heby,2.1,2,3;&c.  Secondly  this  tea
vs  that  they
which  imbrace  pot  the  Goſpell  among  vs,  are  contemners
of  Chriſt,  and  ſhall  endure  eternall  condemeation.  70h.  3-218.&
Heb.12  25.  Thirdly,if  we  want  vaderſtanding,  we  mult  pray  to
zo  Chrilt  for  it  zand  becauſe  we'bape  ſo  excelleat  ateacher,we  mult
pray  vntohim  that  he  would  give  vato
vs  hearing  cares,  tbatis,
rts  tractable,and  obedieatto  bis  word,that  we  may  be  fit  diſci-
ples  for  ſo  worthy  a  maſter.
T  he  ſecond  is,that  there  be  two  waies  whereby  Chriſt  teacheth
1-5  thoſethat  areto  beteachers.  Oneisimmediate  revelation  ;  the  0-
ther  is  ordinary  in{truion  in  ſthooles  by  the  meanes  and  mini-
ſtery  of  man.  The  like  ſaith  Amor,  |
was  neither  Prophet  nor  ſanne  of  4
or.  =  the  Lord  (ent  me  ta  prophecie  to  [ſracl.  Amor.  7.4.
hethirdpointis,  that  they  which  areto  be  teachers  mult  firſt
2  be  taught  ;and  they  mult  teach  that  which  they  bave  firlt  learned
themſelues,  2.7\:n9.3.14.  Abide  wn  the  things  which  thow  haſt  learned.
Chriſt  caught  that  which  be  heard  of  the  Father  zthe  Apoſtles  that
which  they  heard  of  Chriſt  :  ordinary  miniſters  that  which  they
have  learned  of  the  Apoſtles,
T  his  is  the  right  Tradition:  and  if  it
25  beoblerued  without  addition  or  detraRtion,  the  Goſpell  (hall  re-
maine  in  his  integrity,  Here  our  Aunce(tours  are  greatly  to  bee
blamedwho  baue  not  contented  themſelues  with  that  which  they
have  learned  ofthe  Apoliles,  but  haut  delivered  thiogs  of  their
owne  which  they  were  never  taught,  Hence  ſprang  vawritten  tra-
30  ditions,and  the  corruption  ofreligion.  Againe,ſuch  are  here  to  be
blamed,that  take  ypon  them  to  be  teachersof  the  Goſpel,and  were
neuer  taught  by  revelation,or  by  any  ordinary  way.  Thicdly,pri-
uvate  perſons  aremuch  more  to  be  blamed,that  broach  and  deliver
ſuch  doqrines,and  opinions,as  they  themſclues  never  learned  by
35  any  miniſtery.  For  teachers  themſclues  rhult  firlt  learne,  and.
then  teach.
T  he  fourth  point  is,  that  they  which  are  to  be  teachersare  hrft
to  betaught,and  that  by  men,where'euelation  is  wanting.  T  his
kindofteaching  is  the  toundation  of  the  ſchoole  of  the  Prophets,
44.  and  it  hath  beene  from  the  beginning,  T
he  Patriarkes  till  2/oſes
were  Prophets
in  their  families;  and  they  taught  not  onely  their
families  in.  generall,  but  alſo  their  firſt  borne;  that  on  nigh
ucceede
