---
page: 208
pdf_page: 230
---
Chap.  3
ACommimanevyps.\
216
nevertheles  cannot
abide  toheare  and  reade  the  word  of  God  tang
thereaſon  is,  becauſe  they.obſervenot
the  orderoftheir  baptiſm,
f  -
of  allto  become  diſciples,andthen  to  lay  hold  ofthe.-promiſes,
of  God.
"1s
s'  ©  1
211
Fora
They
likewiſe  areto  be  blamed,
that  bring
vp  their  youtls  in  ig.
g.
Arr  eliey
are  baptized
conditi
that  ehey  (hllb,  ,
come  diſciples  of  Chrilt,  when  they
cometo  yeares
of  diſcretion;
And  they  are  by  this  meanes  batred  fromallthe  mercies  of  God;
for  we  mult  as  good  diſciples  obey  the  commandementthat  bidz
vs  turne  and
beleeue,hefore  wecan  have
any  benefit  'or  profir
by  0
any  ofthe  promiſes
of
God(-*  0  ©
94nd  nyt  vict
I  a(Hy  ,
weare  here  ravght  in  the  working  of  ourſatuatioa
to
keepethe  order  of  God  which  he  hath  ſet  downe  vato  vs  in  baps
tiſme,  which  is,firſt  of  all  to  turne  vato  God,  according  toall  his  |
lawes  ;  and  ſecondly  vpon  our  converſion  to  lay  bold  ot  the  pro-;{
miſes  of  God,  and  _—  thereof
by  the  facraments,
T  bus  ſhall
we  finde
in  thepromiſes  of  God,and  baue  true.
fellowſhip  with  God,if
we  beginoe  where  hebegianes  in
maki
of  his  couenant  with  vs,  and  end  where  he  ends.  And  this  we
doe  not  onelyin  the  time  of  our  tir(tconvertion,  butalſoates  ,,
ward  in  thetime  of  diftre(ſe  and  affli&ion,andat
fuch  timesasby
frailty  we  fall  and  offend  God.  In  a  word,
if  for  practiſe  we  alwaies
_  our  ſelues  to  thisorder,we  ſhall  find  true  comfort  inlifeagd
th.
It  followes,  Baptizang  them  mto  the  name,or  in  the  name
of  the  Fig.
ther,  Sonne;and  hol;  Ghoſt.  T  heſe  words  (ignitie\:firlt,  tobaptzeby
the  commandement  and  authoritie  of  the  Father,  Sonney  and
holy  Ghoſt:  ſecondly,  to  baptize  by  and  with  the  invocation  of
the  nameof  thetrye  God.  Woarſoemer  ye  doe  imword  or  deede,  deceit
in  the  name  of  our  Lord  7eſus  Chriſt,that  is,by  the  inuocation  ofthe
name  of  Chrilt  :  Co/.3,17:  Thirdly,  to  baptizoin  the  name,  &c.ligni-
fies  to  waſh  with  water  in  token  that  the  partie  baptized  hath  the
name  of  God  named  vpon  him,  andthathe  is  receiucdintoithe
houſhold  or  familie  of  God,  as  a  child  of  God,a  member  of  Chrilh  3#
apd  thetemple  of  the  holy  Ghoſt.  Thus  /acob  ſaithia  the  __
tion  of  Ephraim  and  Manaſſer,  Let  them  be  mine  and  let  my  name
called  vpox  thews,Gen  48:5.16.  And  Parlfaith,  that  the  Corintivant
migtt  not  be  named  and  diſtiogniſhed  by  Pa/,Cephar,  Apoliorgbe
caule  they  werenot  baptized  into  their  names,  but  intothe  yame
drm  ©  1  1.13,  And  this  |  caketo  bethetull  ſenſe  of  chef
phraſe.
ure!
Here  we  ſee  what  is  done  in{baptiſme  4  the  Covenant?
