---
page: 232
pdf_page: 254
sortable_pagination_id: "232"
---
.  f  Commentarie
p08  .
240
Chap.4-
CH  AP.
IIIL..
ffereth
i  And  1  ſay  that  the  heire,  as  long  as  hee  s  4  child
nothing  from  4  ſeruant  though  he  be  Lord  of  all:
But  is  under  Titors  and  gouernorsgfill  the  time  appoimed
the  father.
-  JE"  w;ofarirtievabidniivireis  brink
der the  rudiments  of  the  world.
4  But  when  the  fulneſſe  of  time  was  come,  God  ſent  foorth  ug  ,
his  Sonne  made  of  a  woman,and  made  wnder  the  law,  ke
5  That  he  might  redeeme  them  that  were  under  the law  zbu
we
might  receiue  the  adoption  of  ſonnes.
=>
And  becauſe  ye  are  ſonnes,God
bath  ſent  forth  the  ſjuri  of
his  Sonne  into  your  hearts,  which  crieth,  Abba,  Father,
*  ©"  ©
7  Wherefore  thou  art  no  more  4  ſeruant
þut  a  ſonne  *andif
thou  be  a  ſonneghou  art  alſo
an  heire
of  God  through  Chriit.
«  Heſe  wordes  depend  on  te  former  Chapte,
aSan  anſwer  toan  obieRion,  which  may  bee  19
>WA\
framed  on  this  magner.  Pax,  thou
faieltthat
1  the  lewes  before  Chrill,  were  wnder  the  lava
LO
of)  vnder  a  Schoolemaſter,  C.3.v.24.  and  that  wee
free  from  the  ſame  Schoolemaſter,  v.z2  5.  being
ol.
Db
drenof  Godand  hewres  by  Chrift,  verſe  29,butwe  #5
for  our  parts  thinke  our  ſelues  ſeruants
yt
der  thelaw,  as  well  asthe  ancient  lewes,  andthat  they  are
as
well
the  children  of  God,aswe.  TothisobieRtion  Pav/  makes  anſwer
in  theſe  7.  verſes,  asthe  very  firſt  words  import;  And
[ay  :  n_  ;
whatſceucr  youſuppoſe,[
{ay  thus,  And  then  bee
reaſon  ofhis  anſwer,which  may  beframed  thus:  If  the  timeof  our
bondage  beended,and  thefull  time
of  our  libertie  come,then
are
wee  ſonnes,and  notſeruants:  but  the  time
of  our  bonadageis
en-
ded,  andthetime  of  aurliberticis  come:  therefore  we  arc not  fer-
uants,  but  ſonnes,
35
T  he  mwvr  is  omitted,  becaule  it  is
manifeſt,  The  minor
is  inthe
ſixe  firlt  verſes  :  the  concluſonis  expreiled  inthe  7.  verſe,”
Againe,the  mwnory{thetime  of  our
e  15  ended
and  the  time
liertie
is  come  is  hirſt  of  all  declared  by  a  (imilitude,
and
then  con-
fcmed,  Thelimilitade  is  borrowed  fromthe  Ciuilllawzandit  may  ff
be  framed  thus:  Heires  in  their  minoritie,
liue  in  ſubicRion  totu-
tours  and  gouernours  :  but  when  they  are
of  riper  yearcs,at  theap-
