---
page: 233
pdf_page: 255
sortable_pagination_id: "233"
---
——_
the  Epiitle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap.
4.
241
pointment  oftheir  pareuts;they  areat  their  ownelibertie.  Even  ſo,
the  people  of  God  before  Chrilt,  were  in  their  infancie  vnder  the
law  as  vadera  Tutour:  but  when  the  fulne(ſe  of  time  was  come,
which  God  hadappointed,they  entred  intothe  fruition  of  their  li-
5  bertie.  The.  ficlt  part  of  the  ſimilitude  is  exprefled  in  the  two  firlt
vetſes,aod
the  ſecondin  the  3.200
4.
Againe,the  winor  is  confirmed  by  two  reaſons.
The
firſtis  this:
Your  libertie  js  procured  by  Chriſt  :  theretorethe  timeof  your  li-
bertieis  come.  This  reaſonis  ip  the
4;  and  5.  verſes.  Theſecond
40  reaſon  is  taken  from  the  ligne,
Fav  bene  recerned  the  ſpirit  of
adoption:
=  the  timepf.zourlibaticis  come,verle  5;  Of  theſe  points
ET.
et
rn
Firſt,  where  he  ignifies,that  the  father  bath  authoritie  to  diſpoſe
of  his  child.  This  is  the  law  of  nature,and  the  law  of  nations.  Pax!
1  5  faith,Ce/.3.20,  that  children  muſs  obey  their  parents  in  all  things.  When
the  divell  had  obtained  libertie  to  affli&t  /eb  in  all  things  that  be-
longed  to  him,ſaue  bis  perſon;heedeſtroyed  his  children,
706  1.12,
18.  And  this  ſhewes,that  the  childrenin  reſpe&  of  their  bodies,are
the  goods  of  their  parents.  In  this  reſpeR  the  lewes  were  permit-
260  ted  to  ſell  their  children,  Exod.z  1.7,  And  fo  facred  a  thing  wasthe
authoritie  of  the  parent  ,  that  hee  which  rebelliouſly  deſpiſed  the
was  put  todeath,Dexr.21.21;
This  authority  ſhewesit  ſelfe,  ſpecially  in  two  thiogs:  in  the  ma-
riage;and  in  the  calling  ofthe  child.  In  the  marriage
of  the  child,
2;  theparent  is  the  principall  agent,and  thediſpoſer  x  =  Dext.7,
4£x04,34-16.  1.Cor.7.38,  Whereobſeruc,  that  the  commaunde-
ment  touching  the  mariage  of  the  child,  is  giuen  oat  to  the  child,
but  tothe  parent  :  and  the
parent  hath  authoritigby  the  ſaid  com-
mandement  togiue  and  bellow  his  childe,andto
fake  wives  to  his
30  ſonnes.  Thas  Abr.chomtookea  wite  for  //a\:c,and  {aac  lutfred  him-
ſelfe  to  be  diſpoſed  at  the  appointment  of  his  father.  Fora  more  ful
declaration  of  this  authornie,  |  propoundtheſe  three  queſtions.
The  firſt  is,  whether  hefathber  may  commaund  bis  childeto.
marrie?  Anſwer.  Preſuppoletwo  things;  one;  that  the  comman-
35  dement  be  without  compullion;the  ſecond;that  thefather  knowes
what  is  for  the  good  of  the
child:  then  1  anſwerghat  he  may  com-
mand  his  child!
to  marry,and  to  marry  a  perſon  thus  or  thus  quali-
fied.
T  hus  1ſa«c  commanded  acob  to  marry  in  the  bouſe  of  Laban,
Gen,28,1,2.6&  Jacob  obcied,  Now  whether  a  tatber  may  command
49  hischild  to  marry  this  or  thisperſon,l  doubt,and  thertoreſuſpend,
Thelecond  queltion  is,  whether  parents  may  make  voyd  the
contraRt  ſecretly  made  by  their  children,  without  or  agaioil  thai
"ny
content
