---
page: 212
pdf_page: 234
---
Chap.  3-
A  Commentarie  pon
220
thy  {clfe  to  Godyſpecially  in  thy  temptations  remember
it:  and  fee
thou  (tand  toit,and  make  it  good,
The  ſecondqueitionis,  whether  baptiſme  aboliſh  Originalf
ſiane,or  no?  Theauſwer  ofthe  Papilt  is,  thatit  doth:  ſoas  in  the
party  baptiſed,  there  remaineth  nothing  that
God  may  iu(tly  5
hate  :  and  therefore  be  aith,  that  Ociginall  (inne after  baptiſme,
ceaſeth  to  be  (inne  properly.  We  teach,andareto  hold,  that  the
perfect  and  intire  baptiſme(iv  which  the  outward  and  inward
baptiſmeare  ioyned  ragath@Jaboliſheth
the  puniſhmeoe
of  lione,
and  the  guilt,  that  is,  thegbliggfion  to  puniſhment,and  the  fault  ;  '
yernothmply  ,  butiat
fieſt,
in  reſpeCt  ofumputanen  ,
becauſe  God  doth  not  impute  Originall  ſinne  to  them  that  are
inCtciſt:  ſecondly,  in  reſpet  of  demmion,  becauſe  Originall
livae  raigneth  not  in  them  that  are  regenerate,  Nevertheleſle,
after  baptulme,  ic  remaines  in  them  thatare  baptiſed,  and
is  (till,  's
and  that  properly,  (inne.  Paw.  ſaith  Rom,7.20.1f[  doerbat  1  manid
not,  it  15  m0  more  [that  doe  ut,  but  fine  that  dwellath  in  medoth
it,
Here  marke,  Pax/cailsconcupiſcenceinhimſelfe  after  regeners-
tion,  fame;  and  that  properly  :  becauſche  ſaith  it  is  the  ſame  that
maketh  mea  to  linne,  And  Cel.3.  5.he  ſaith,  CAortifie
your  carth-  1*
ly  members:  and  among(t  therelt  he  nameth,  exil!  concupyſcence.
And  tothe  Epbeſians.4.22.Be  je  renewed  im  the  ſpirit  of
your  munde:  ,
Therefore  after  baptiſme  ſome  portions  remaine  (till  of  the  old
man,
or  of  origiaall  tinne,  S.  /obn  ſaigh.  2.  7ob.  1.8.  1f  we  ſay  we  bw
no  ſinnt,  we  decerne  our  (elves,  Anſweris'made,that  thisis  ſpoken  ol  *#
veniall,
or  {mall  ſinnes\:but  how  can  they  be  ſmall  (innes  that  are
to  be  walhed  away  withthe  blood  of  Chrilt,as  befaitb.v.  z.Andit
thele  words  be  ſpokea  of  infants(as  they  are  )then  mult  Concupi-
(cence  bea1inin  thems\:for  they  baue  no  aRuall  fins,  Laſtly,Chrilt
ſaich,  /ob.t3  10,  He  that  it  all  waſhed,mnſt
hane  hu  feetethat
is  bis  9
carnallattetions,we/ved.  Hereobleruetwothings.  One;thatdefile-
ments  ot  linne  remaineinthem  that  are  waſhed.
T  he  ſecond,  that
they  are  afterthe  fhrlt  waſhing,to  bedone  away  by  Chriſt,and  not
by  the  acts  of  our  penance,
[  he  groundsot  Pop:ſhdoQtrine  in  this  point,aretwo.  The  fill  $5
isthis.  T  hey  makethree  degrees  of  Concupilcence.  T
he  firltis,
the  pranenesin  the  fleſh  to  rebell  againſt  the  law  ofthe  mindeor
the  pronenefletoeuiil,  The  ſecond,  ſtandsin  the  firlt  motions
to  linne,  which  goe  betorecopſent  of  will,
T  he  third,  (tands  io  ads
of  lult  ioyned  with  conſent  of  will.  This  third,they  ſay,is  forbid-  49
dcnin  the  moral  law,  which  forbids  and  condemnes  voluntare
concupilcence?  and  che  two  firlt  are  not,  Becaule(asthey  ſpeake)
Cons,
