---
page: 235
pdf_page: 257
sortable_pagination_id: "235"
---
the  Epiztle
10  the  Galatians,
243
Chap.4.
.that
they.  mfiibefubiefttotheir  Tutars'and\:gouernors,as
to  their
cue  and  mothers.  Rxth  lone  d  Naomjrnd  clene  des  as  to
her  mother;  Ruth  1.1  6  Chiilt  was  fubied  ta/ofph  who  was  but  a
repulgd  father;Luke  2,Jaſt.,Theſonnes  of  the  Prophets  ohey  their
matter.  astheir  ownetathers,2.  Xny/2.1.2.  and  fodyethe  ſervants
fo  their  malter,2-King.5113.  |  nn
nuertmouR
(3
i  Now  I  come  to  the  fecond  partof  ehelimilitude,v.3;  Enenſowe]
that  is,the  Iewes,  andall  chepeople  of  Godinthe  ld  Teſtament.
Were  children]  wereaschildeen  in.ceſpeR  of  the  Chriſtian  Church
10  ;athenew  Tellament;!
ono
Lol
oo
nn
-  Wercimbondgge]
Theilewesare  faiditobe  inibindage  in  reſpett
of  vs:  becauſe/thly-weraiſobie@to  more  kawesttienwe  arezand
they  wanted  the  fruition  of  thelibertie  which  we  enjon;.  They  bad
the  right  of  ſonnes;  but  theyinioyednottheircight
as  we  doi  and
15  thisis  their  bondage.  Focotherwiſe  liberty'in  aan  bel,
death,and  (inne;they\:bad
euen  as  wemgmthae.:-:-  1
242
_Radimentt  of  the  world]thatiies
the  hav  or\:riniſtery  of  317erzand
it  is  ſd  called\in  reſpett  of  a  rhore  full  aid  glentifull  dotrinegn  the
Miniſtery  ofthe  new  Teſtament.  Anditts  called  the  Rudinicns  of
20  the  world,  becauſe  lewry  was  as  it  were,  .  alittle  ſchoole  ſet  vp'  ina
corner
of  the  world;the  law
of  Moſer  was  avit  were,  ap  «,6,c5.0:
obſcure  matiner,ſpecially  tothe  Jewes.:  /
oc
Zou
+,  *  The  vſe.Here  we  fee,  that  the  people
of  the  old  Teftamear,
25  werefor  right,heirevas  wellas  we,  andtheretore  thay  bad  right  ro
all  the  bleſſings  of  God.  Thedifference  betweene  vs  and  them,  is
onely  in  che  manner  which  God  vicd  in  difpenling  'the  forefaid
ingsto  vs.  4
Tt
a9  C2UNS
207-10
Agidine,  theFathets  of  the  olde  Teſtament  before  Chai(t,
30  were  but  as  children  in  ceſpeR
of  vs  now,  Thus  much  faith  Pas/
in  expreiſe  words,  And  they  were  ſo  two  waies,  Firſt,in  reſpect
of  the  Moaicall  regiment:.  becauſe  they!  were  kept  in  ſubiction
tomorelawes  thea  we.  Secondly,  they  were  fo  in  reſpec  of
revelation:  becauſe  God  hath  reucaled  moreto  vs,then  to  them.
35  Reade  Leh.  10,24.1t
may  beſaid,  wenow  are(the  belt  of  vs)  but
children  to  Afrabam  &  the  Prophets,whetber  we  reſpe&  know-
ledge,or  faith.  Au/w.  Itisfo  ifwe  compareperſon  and  perſon;  but
it  is  otherwiſe,if  we  compate  body  with  bady,&  copare  the  Chri-
ſlizo  Church,  with  the  Church  of  the  lewes  betore  Chrilt\:thenwe_
42  excecd  them  &  they  are  butchildren  to  ys.  T  bismult  teach  vsalto
be  carefull;to  increaſe  in  kaowledge,&  in  the  grace  of  God,  that
Wemay
be  anſiwerable  to  our  condition.  And  toliuein  ignorance
as
