---
page: 214
pdf_page: 236
---
Chap.  3;
A  Commentarie  pon  th
222-
Godzappliesthe  promiſeof  mercy  to  him  thatisbuptiſed.  it  isin-
decde  as  muchas  if  God  ſhould
have  madea
petticular  promiſe  to
him.1n  thisregard;baptiſme  maywell  be  ſaid  to  conferre  grace,  as
the  Kings  letters  areſaid  toſaue  thelife  of  the  malefactour,  when
they  doe  but  Fgnitie  to  him  and  Others,that  the  kings  pleafure  is
pj
toſhew  fauour.  Againe,baptiſme  may  be  faideto  conferre
grace,
becauſe  the  outward  waſhing  of  the  body  is  token
or  Pledge  of
the  grace  of  Godz\:and  by  this  pledgefaith  is  confirmed,  which  is
an  in(trament  to  —_—  or  receivethegraceof  God,  And  this
confirmation  is  made  by  a  kind  of  reaſoning  in  the  minde,on  jrhis  !0
manner:  He  that  vſeththe  (ligne  aright,ſhall
receive  thetbing  (ige
nified:  |  (faith  the  party  baptiſed,  beeing  of  yeares)  vie  the
aright  in  faith  and  repentance:  therefore  |  ſhall  receive  the
ſignified,remiflion  of  linnes,  and  life  everlaſting.  A  kipg  faith  to
his  ſabieR,  Hethat  brings  the  head
of  ſuch  a  traytour,
ſhall  have  '$
athouſandpoundes.  Well:  thehead  of  the  foreſaid  traytour  is"
cutoff:
:  and  er  ratoowns  =  w  lay,  mo
nd,  or,this
bring  me  athouſan
poynds,becau
it  is  vtto
nag
vpon
the  kings  word  of  the  reward
ofa  thouſand
nds,  Andſoisthe  waſhing  in  baptiſme  aninfallible
to  3
im  thatbelecues,  of  the  pardon  of  his  ſinnes.  Thus
(a-
craments  conferre  grace,and  no  otherwiſe,  One  reaſon  for
may  bethis.  The  wordof  Godconferreth  grace  (for  itisthe
power  of  God  to  ſalvationtothem  that:  beleeue  )and  this  it  doth
by  (ignifying  the  will  of  God,  by  the  care  tothe  mind  \:nowe  '5
very  ſacrament  is  theword  of  God  madevilible  tothe  eye\:the  {a
crament  therefore  confers  prace  by  vertue  of  bis  (ignification,  and
by  reaſonitis  a  "F  P
t  —_—  of  i30d,  of  his  mercy
and  goodnes,  [t  may  befaid,  aſacrament  isnot  only  a  (igne  and  a
ſeale,but  alſoan  inſtrument  toconvay  the  grace  of  God  toys.  An-  3®
ſwentisnot  aninſtromenthavingthe  grace
of  God  tyed  vnto  it
or  ſhut  vp  init:  but  anin(trument  to  which  grace  is  preſent  by  alli-
{tance  ia  the  right  vietherof\:becauſe
io  &  with  the  right  vic  of  the
ſacrament,
God  conterresgrace\:and  thus  it  is  an  inſtrument,
no  otherwiſe,that  is,  amorall  and  not  a  phylicallioſtrument.
35
ThedoRrine  of  the  Papilt  is,that  the  Sacrament  conterres  grace
by  the  worke  done  :  thatis,  that  the  outward  ation  of  the  Mini-
lter  conferres  grace  by  hisowne  force,  when  the  Sacrament  is  ad-
miniftred.  And  that  it  may  conferre  grace,  ſome  ſay;that  the  ſaid
Thom.  Sum,
aQion  hath  vertue  in  it  for  this  purpoſe,which  palleth  away  when  49
P+3.q  62,  art,
the  ation  is  ended:  others  ſay,it  hathno  vertue  init,  but  that
'Þ|
4.  Bellar.de
Gods  yling  of  the  ation  eleuates  it,  and  makes  it  able  to  conferre  ©  *
Sacr  1.2.C.11,
grace,  N
