---
page: 217
pdf_page: 239
---
the  Epiffle
to  the  Galatians,
Chap.3.
theirs  is  the  Kingdomeof  God  :  and  therefore  if  they  die  before
baptiſme,
they  are  ſaved.  The  theefe  vpon  the  crotle,  and  many
holy  Martyrs,  have  died  without  baptiſme,  and  are  in  the  king-
domeof  heaven,
s:
lt  is  obieced,  that  the  malechilde,  which  is  not  circumciſed,
muſt  (by  Gods  commaundement)  bee  cut  off  from  the  people  of
God,  Geneſis  17.  14.  and  therefore  hee  that  is  not  baptized,  muſt
alſo  beecut  off.  Anſwer.  Thetext  is  ſpoken  and  meant,not  of  in-
fants  ,  but  of  men  of  yeares,  who  beciog  till  then  vncircumci-
,  |  16  ſed,deſpilethe  ordinanceof  God,  and  retuſe  to  bee  circumcifed.
And  this  appeares  by  the  reaſon  following  :  for  bee  hath  made
my
conenant  034:  now  infants  doe  not  this,  but  their  parents,  or
men  of  yeares.
Secondly,  the  ſpeech  of  Chriſt  iso0bieRed,  7obn  3.5.  Except  4
15  994  be  borne  of  water  and  the  boly  Ghoſt
he
6.annot  enter  mito  the  kingdome
of  God,  Anſwer.  Chrilt  alludes  to  the  waſhings  of  the  old  T  eſta»
ment,  Ezech.36.25.  and  withall  giges  an  expoſition  of  themon
this  manner.  Thou  art  a  Phariſee,  and  loveſt  much  waſhing  :  but
ifthou  wouldeſt  eater  into  the  kingdome  of  heaven,  thou  muſt
29  be  waſhed  with  cleane  water,that  is,  born  anew  by  the  holy  Ghoſt,
Againe  I
anſwer,  that  ifqhe  words  be  meant  of  baptiſme,the  y  car-
ry  this  ſenſe.  The  kin
e  of  heaven  doeth  not  (ignitielite  eter-
nall,  but  the  Church  of  the  new  Teſtament,and  that  io  his  viſible
ellate,/fark,9.1.and  baptiſme  makes  men  vilible  members  of  the
25  Church,and  regeneration  by  the  ſpirit,  makesthem  true  and  lively
members.  Here  then  baptiſme  is  made  neceſſary,  not  io  refpetof
eternall  life,but
in  reſpeR  of  our  admiſſion  and  entravceintothe
Church,whereof  it  is  now  the  ogely  meanves.
The  ſeventh  point  is,  touching  thecircumſtances  of  Baptiſme,
3+-which  are  five.  T  be  firſt,  concervesthe  perſons  which  areto  admi-
niſter  baptiſme,of  whom  |  propound  toure  queltions.
The
fir(t  is,  whether  not  opely  Miniſters  of  the  word,  butalſo
lay-perſons  (as  they  arecalled  )  or  meere  private  men,  may  admi-
nilter  Baptiſme?  Aaſwer,  Miniſters  of  the  word  onely.  For  to
45  baptize  is  a  part  of  the  publike  Miniſterie,  CAZatthew  28,  18.  Gor
teach
all  nations,  baptizirg  chem,  And  marke  how  preaching,  and
baptizing  are  ioyacd  together  ;  and  things  which  God  hath  ioy-
ned,  noman  may  ſeparate.  Againe,  hee  that  mult  performeany
part  ofthepuhlike  Miniltery,my(t  have  a  calling,/om.  10.  14.  Heb.
43-5.  but  meere  private  perſons
haue  no  calling  tothis  bulineſle.
Andwhatſoener
is  not  of  faith,  is  (linne  :  now  the  adminiſtrati-
on  of  baptilne  by  private  perſons,  is  without  faith.  For  there
Is
