---
page: 242
pdf_page: 264
sortable_pagination_id: "242"
---
Chap.  4:
A  Conmentarie  pou
ono-iublifiance.  Thelike  example  to  thisiszot
to  befurind  againe
inthe  world:  yetbave  we  fome  telemblanceofthis  my  lterie  inthe
plant  called  Mefſeho,  which  bathno  roote  of  bisowne,
but  groweg
ina  tree  ofanother  kinde,and  thence  receives  his  {appe.  Andſothe
manhood  ofthe  fonne  hath  noperſonalicy  or  perſonal  ſubliſtance;  5
butisreceiuedinto  the  Vaitie  oftheſecand  perton;andis  ſuſtained
ofic.  1ltmult  bere  be  obkerued,  that  thereisaditference  betweene
the  manhood  of  Chrilt,  aad  all  other  men.  Peror  is  a  ptrion  ſub.
liting  of  himſelfe,and  ſoisPeri,  and
every  particular  man  :  but  ſo
bacon  and  -  :  re  it  is  to  betearmeda  19
nature,and
not  aperſon,  And  it  is  a0  dityrace;but
an  exaitationts
the  natureof  man,  that  it  fublilts
by  the  racreated  ſubliltanceof
theſecoadpeaſon.-
>.  hu
1”
"7
219®
991
Itmay  beobiected,  thatall  beleeuers
arc  ioyned  to  the  fonne  of
God,as  uell  as  the  fleſhof Chrilt:  |  anſwer),  they  arefo,  butinan  '?
other  kinde,and  inatlower  degree,by  commanication
of
nechy  emit  CORO  uogge  218  162
!is  bi
Thus  wee  ſee  how  the  tonne  was  made
the  vie  follower,
Hence  wecleatae  to  vic  all  meates,  that  wee  may  becomenew
creatures,and  be  borne  of  God,  God  becomes  man,
that  wemen  1;
might  be  parte  kers  of  the  divine  nature.   Chritt  is  made  boneof
our  bone,and  fleſh  of  our  fleſh  by  his  incarnatian,that
we  mighthe
made  bane  of  hisbong,and  Reſh  of  his  fleſh  by  regeneration,
The
Sonneof
God  was  niade  the  fonne  uf  many  that  we  which  arethe
ſonnes
of  men  might  be  made  the  fonnes  of  God.
=”
To  be  made  fieſh,is  theabaſement  of  his  Sonne:  in  thisabaſe-
ment  he  goes  on,  till  he  become  euen  ««  wermeef  the  earthy  ſalw;
22.7.0  muſt
we  able  our  ſelyes;till  we  be  anthilared
and  brought
to  nothing  2  theo  ſhall  wee  bee  likoto  Chriſt,  and  filled  with  the
good  things  of  God.
Our  finnes  ace  a  wall  of  partition  betweene  God  and  vs:  (0
23  weare  farrefrom  Godzand  Gudfrom  vs,  //as.  59.2.  and  this  pats
ticion  is  of
ourowne  making  :  and  by  this  meanes  wee  baue  no&-
celſeto  God  of  our  ſelues;though
we  prayvntobim,and  fl  heaven
and  earth  with  our  crie.  Now  the  Sonneof  God  made  man,is  Ew  4;
manue/,that  is;God  with  vi,  ſa.  7,  14.  and  hisincarnation  isa  meanes
whereby  we  haue  accetſe  toGod,  and  hee  i;  neere  onto  11,  when  wet
pray  wnto  bimin  trueth,  2,  Chronicles  15,  2.  This  mull:  teach  vs  to
draw  neere  to  God,  in  the  hearing  and  obeying  of  hisword,\:i0
40
prayer,andin  the  vſe  of  the  holy  Sacraments,  If  this  be  notdoone,  #
great  is  our  wic  kedneſle,  and  great  ſhall  bee  the  puniſhment,  w
24.  14.  P/al.7  3.27,
Thv.
