---
page: 243
pdf_page: 265
sortable_pagination_id: "243"
---
the  Epiſtle  tathe  Galatians,
Chap.
4-
231
Theigcarnation  of  Chridt;jis
the  foundation  of  all  our  comfurt,
and  al  good  things  which  we  inioy,By  it  Godcomforts  A4am,7he
ſeed  of  the  womanſhall  bruiſe  the  Serpents  head.  1acob  is  coraforted  by
the  vicion  of  a  ladder,  reaching  from  heaven  toearth  :  and  this
5  ladderisthe  Sonneof  God  made  man,1eb.1.5  t.  7ob  comfortshim-
ſelfe;io  this,  chat  bus  Redeemer
of  bis  owne  fleſs(as  theword  l(ignibieth)
Iucth;  Tob.19.25;1n  theold  \Tefament,  they  which  oughe  no
God,cametothe  Arke  or  Propitiatory,and  therewerethey  heard,
and  received
the  bleſſings
of  God.  Now  Chrilt,God  and  man,  is
39  in  ſfead  of  the  Arke,  Kew,  3.25.a0d  therfore  we  muſt  cometo  him
if  we  would  receive  an
thing  of  God.
The'godheqd  is
the  fountaine  of  all  g
ings}  and  the  fleſh  or  manhood  is  a
pipe  orconduit  to  convaythe  fame  vato  vs.  If  we  would  thenre.-
ceiuve  truecomfort,  we  myſt  hunger  and  thirſtin-our  hearts  after
1.5  Chriſt,and  by  our  faith
eate  hisfleſhand  drinke  his  blood,  Joh.  6.
$4.56:
42
1G!
Thethirdpoint  ordegree;
jﬆtbe  ſubieRion  of  the  Son-of  Gad
tothe  law,expretſed  ia  theſe  words,made
wider  the  law.
Mardowo  garttoneary  (ha  nliveres  The  firlt  is,
whois  made
ſubieFkorhe
An  <_T  Soropof  ng  _And  this  may  nor
ſeemeTFanpo;tbathewhictris  LotSofthe  law,  ſhould  beſubiect
conbiclger  toes  maſt  becon(ideredzas  he  is  our  pledgeand  ſure-
ry,Heb.5,22.a00  as  one  that  (tandes  io  our  place,  roome,  &ltead  g
and  before  God  repreſents  the  perſon  of  alltheeleRt\:andinthisre«
2;  ſpeRisheſubieAro  thelaw,not  by  nature,but  by  voluntary  abale.
ment  and  condition  ofwill.
TOINCE
*"Theſecond  queltionis,'  how  theSonneof  God'  was  ſubieR
tothe  law  ?  Au/wer\:By
a  twofold  obediencet  namely,'  bythe  o-
bedienceof
his  paſſion  ,  and  by  his   obediencein  fulklling
the
30  law.  Theobedience
of  his  paſſion  ſtands  before  God  as  a  ſatiſtaRi-
6n  for  the  breach  of  the  law.  lo  it  conſider  twothings,  the  foun-
dation  of  the  paſſion,  and  the  patſion  it  ſelte,  The
toundation  is,
that
the  .Soune  of  God  was  made  (cane  for  viz.  Cor,  5.21,  that  is,allthe
lipries  ofall  the  Ele  were  imputed  tohim  ,  and  he  in  ourroome
35  andplace  was  recounted  a  inner.  Thepallion  ic  ſeife,  is  the  curſe
of  thelaw,  laid  on  the  Sonne  of  God,namely,  the  firlt  death,  and
thepainesof  theſecond  death;  which  is  ineffeR  and  ſubltance,
as  pole  as  |  have  ſhewed  iathe  3.  cbap.  v.13.  ofthis
pine,
4%
Bytheſecond  Obedienceiofalfilling  thelaw,theSonne  of  God
pullrived  for'vs,.  all  things  contained  therein,  that  we  mighe
hayeright  tolifecucclalting,  and  that  —
tothe  tenour  of
the
