---
page: 244
pdf_page: 266
sortable_pagination_id: "244"
---
Chap.  4+
4  Commentarie
pon
252
the  law,  Levit.18-5\:Doe  alltheſe,  thingr
and  (ne,  Of  this  obedience
2.  queſtions.arc  demanded,
T  he  firlt  is,  whetherit
be  necellarie
for
theiuttification  of  alinner?eAv/w.ltis:  The  fumme  otthelaw  is,
Lowe  God  with  alliby  beart,,and  thy  veighbowr  as  thy  ſcife  :  Now  every
jot  and  title  ofthe
jave  mull  necallarily  betulblied,  Mach,  5.  18,  5
Much  more  thea  the  ſumme  and  ſubilance  of  thelawe,  And
it
cannot  befultilled  by  vs  ,,  beeing  (innerg  +  therefore  there  mult
needs  be  atran(lation  ofthelaw  trom  our  perſons,  to  the  ptrion
of  the  Mcdiatour,  who  is  toaccompliſh
every
iototthelaw  torvs,
Againe,  He  that  deth  not
allcrhmgs  contarned
wibe  bam  3  is  curſed,  Gal.  1,
Sh  ſlings  Bah  be
faite  aro  alih
Ren
come
to  life  eu
gs.
accompli
contained  inthe  law\:andit  this  cannot
be  done,  thelaw  and  althe
conteots  thereaf,moult  needs  be  accompliſed  in  the  perian  of  the
Mediatovr  :  otherwiſethe  cuiſecannot  be  avoided.  Laltly,we
owe
vato  Goda  double  debt  or  tribute,  T  be  firlt  is,
homage  orfubie  ®
Rion  tobe  performed  with  all  the  powers
of  the  ſoule,
and  with
all  the  (trength  ofallthe  powers,  and  that from  the  irllconcepts
on.  Theſecond  is,a  {atiſtaGion  by  death  for  the  breach  ofthelay,
Andthe  law  isthe  bond  that  binds  ys  to  the  paiment
of  thisdov-
ble  debt.And  till  the  iuſticeof  Godin  the  law  be  anſweredto.  the
full,  this  bond  cannot  be  cancelled.  Therefore  the  Spnne  af  God
the  Mediatour,multoot  only  dy  for vs, but  m0
tor  vs  to  God,according
to  the  tenourot
the  law,  T  herfore
befai
that  be  waſt  performe  allrighteonſueſſe,  Math.3,
15,  And  Pasl,that  i;
Chbrift  i:  the  end  of  the  law  for  ri  —_——_—  10.4.
boys
[tis  alledged,  that  Chriltas  man  fulfilled  the  law for  himelfe:
and  therehora  nag
fauPt.  Anſwer.  The  ficſh
or  manbood  of  Chill
conlidered
by  it  ſelte  apart  faom  the
go
ob  the  Sonne,  it  4
creatureThat  oweshomage
vnto  God.  Yet  if  it  be  conſidered  as  it  jo
is  receivedintothe  vaity  ofthe  ſecond  perſon,C  is.
become  a  paſt
thereof,  it  igexempted  fromthe  common  condition  of  allathe.
menand
is  not  baund  to  performe  ſubiedion;as
all  men  are,  For
it  che  Soune  of  man  be  Lord  of  the  $abboth,  then  alſo  is  he  Lordof  the
wholelaw,  And  Pe»/  berelaith,that  the  Sonneof  God,is  not  borne  14
but  wade  wrder
the  law,
Againe,itisalleadged,  That  the  blasd  of  Chriſt  taketb  awe  1
ſue,  1,{0b.1.7.  and  when  alllinne  istaken  aw2y,  thelawisfulbh-
led,and  the  perſon  juſtified.  An/wer.\Vben  S,  7obn  ſaith,  (he  bled  of
Chriſt  purgeth  vi  from  all
ſin,he  excludes  the  blood  ofbealls,  and  all  40
meritorious  meanes  ot  faluation  in  man,out  of  Chriſt:  and  he  ex-
|  Judesnot  the  obedience  which  the  Mediatour  yecldedto  the  -
