---
page: 224
pdf_page: 246
---
Chap.3.
A  Commentari?  nd
232
to  vaderſiand
the  whole:  and  withoet
this  helpe,  the  ſcriptures
ſhall  be  as  a  riddle  vato  vs.
themſclues
T  be  fourtb  point  whereby  the  gift  of  adoption  is  deſcribed,  is
the  ground  thereof,in  theſe  words,7e  haxe  put  on  Chriſt  :  and  all  we-
ove  in  Chriſt.  The  phraſe  which  Pas{victh,is  borrowed  from  the  5
covſtome  oftherm  which  were  baptiſed  inthe  Apoltles  daies,  who
put  off  their  garments,  when  they were  to  be  baptiſed,  andpur
on  new  garments  after  baptiſme,  Toput
on  agarment,isto
plyit  to  _—  RInEnT.  bin  alfa  Chrith,
15  to  be
ioyned
neerely
to
»  andto  haveſpirituallfellowſhi
with  him.  Here  then  the  foundation  of  apr  adoptionis  in  ”.
things,0urvnion  with  Chriſt,  and  our  communion
with  birn,Of
which
we  are  ſomewhat  to  be  advertiſed  for  the  better  vnderſtan-
diog  of  the  text,
The  vnion  with  Chriſt  ,.is  a  worke  of  God  whereby  all  be-
leeuers  aremade  one  with  Chriſt,  Heretwo  queſtions  are  to  be  *
demanded,  The  firſt  inwhatreſpeR,  or  for  what  cauſe  arethey
Gide  to  beone  with Chriſt?  Anſwer.  T  hey  are  not  one  with  him
in  conceit  or  imagination  2  for  this  coniunRion'isin  trutha  reall
coniunQion.  Jobs,  17,22.  Chrilt  prooues  that  all  beleeners  may  be  me  yg
with  hiangas  be  is  one  with  the  Father,  Secondly  ,theyarenot  one  bare-
ly  by  conſent
of  heart  and  affeRtion  :  for  thus  all  familiars
and
icpds
areone  :  andthey
of  lerufalem  areſaid  thus  to  be'of  av
beart  c  mind,  AF,  4.32.T
hi  GO
ET  Vas
lo
many  belecuers  as  there  are,
fo.many  diltin&  perſons  are  there:  x4
apd  every
one  of  them  diftioR
from  the  perſon  of  Chriſt:
And the
ſub(tance
of  thegaghead  of  Chriſt  is  incommunicable:
&  the  fleſh
of  Chriftis  in  heaven  and  ſhall  there  abidetill  the  laſtiudgemeot
whereupon
it  cangot  be  mixed  or  compounded
with  our
fub(tan-
ces,
Laltly,beleeuersare  not one  with.Chriſt  by  transfuſion  of  the  36
propertes
and  qualities  of  the  godhead,  or  manbood  vatovs.  It
may  beſaid,how
then  arethey  ove  with  hinz?  I  anſwergby  oneand
the  ſame  ſpiritdwelling  in  Chriſt
and  io  al  the  members
of  Cbrilt,
1..Cor.6.17.He  that  cleanethro
the  Lord  gr  ne  ſpirit,  Pax[fith  ip  this
ſenſe,  Eph.2.  14.  that  Chriſt  maketh  the  two  diſtin&  nations  of  ;5.
lewes  and  Gentiles  ove  new  mav.S.  /obu{aith,  that  Chriſt  dwells  m  v1
and  we in  him  by  the  ſpirit,1.lobn  3.23.  For  the  better  conceiving  of
this,ſuppoſe
a  man  whoſeheadlies  ip  Italy  ,his  armes  in  Germany,
and  Spaincyhis  fect#ia  England:ſuppole  further  that  one  and
ſame  {ouleextends
it  felfeto  al  the
foreſaid  parts,  &  quickens  them  48
all:  they  are  all  now  becomeone  in  reſpect  of\:one  and  the  ſame
ſoule,  and  all  concurre  as  members  to  one  and  the  ſame  bodie:
cucw.
