---
page: 226
pdf_page: 248
---
234
.  Chap.?.
A  Commentarie
opon
ward,  is  tho  wantofthe  imegeof  God;thewant  of  innocencie;  of
good  conſcience,ottrhefauour  ofGod,and  athance  io  bim.
For
theſe  are(as  it  were)the  coverings  of  the  ſoule,  Outward  nakednes
js,  when  thebodie  beeing  vacouered  is  foll  of  deformitie  &  ſhame,
Now  that  inward  nakedngs
ot  heart.isnoted  as  a  ſpeciall  evil,  Gen,  $
4+7.Ex34.32.15Pron  29  Kew;y.17,  We  mulſtlabourtoſec&  feele
this  nakednes  in  burſelyes.For  by  it,  we  aredeformed  and  odious
in  theeye  of  God,
Secondly,  weare  here  putin  minde  fo  have  a  ſpeciall  care  ofthe
trimming  and  Farniſhing  of  our:ſoule.  And  for  this  cauſe  we  mull  40
put  on  the  Lord  [eſusy  Rom.  13.14.icAndtbat  is  done  two  waies.  Firſt
by  vncovering  our  tiakedbes  beforeGod,  and  by  praying  him  to
couer  it,  To  yucouer  ourſhame;  is  the  way  to  cover  it,  P/a!.  ;2.  r,
2.3.  Theſecond  way  is,  toſubieR  our  ſcluesto:  the  word  &  ſpirit
of  God,and  to  be  conformableto  Chriſt  bothin  his  life  and  death,  15
It  tands
vs  in  handthosropet
an  Chrilt.”  Forthe  king
of  heauen,
bath  long  inuited'vs  tothe  marriage  of  his  Sonne:  we  have
det  ourſclues  tobe  bisgueſts
and  there  is  a  time  when  the
ki
willeake  afuruay  ofallhis  gueſts,  whether  they  bauethe  _—
garment,which  is  Chriſt  himſelfe  :  and  they  which  are  not  cladde
,,
with  this  robe,ſhall  be  catt  into.  vtterdarknes,  Weare  as  paked
infantsexpcſed  todeath,Ezech.16.  7,  themerit  and  obedience  of
Chriltis  as  ſ\wadling  clothes  and  ſwadling  bands.  Ifwe  would
then  live,  we  mult  lap  and  infold  our  ſelues  in  them.  T  herather]
{peake  this\:becauſe  in  theſe  daies  men  and  women  are  intoxicated  25
with  a  ſpirituall  dronkennes,or  rather  madneſſe,whereby  m__
alwaies  tempering  and  trifling-abouttheir  bodies,C&let  their
ly  naked,  It  may  be  faid,we  bave  al  put  on  Chriſt  io  baptiſme.l  an-
{wer\:we  have  had  in  England  peace  &  proſperity  this  43.yeares:&
we  have  livedMl  this  while,as  it  were  in  thewarmeſun-ſhine  :  and  3
ng,  many  of  vs  (nodoubt)  baue  wornethis  garment  very
looſely,
vil
T  hirdly,thereis  a  great  temptation  ariſing  vpon  the  conliders-
tion  of  our  owne  indignitie.  For  when  our  (1nnes  come  to  our  {ts
membrancetbey  drive  vs  from  the  preſence  of  God,and  make  vs  55
that  we  dare  not  pray.Now  the  remedy  is  this.  We  mult  comeclo-
thed  with  Chriſt  intothe  preſence  of  God\:we  ray  ngt  come  inour
names,but  wemult  comein  his  name  &  preſent  the  evi  of  Chrilt
vato  the  Father,  even  asif
we  were  oneand  the  ſame  perſon  with
him.  Thus  ſhail  we  beaccepted,
Fourthly  ,  it  may  be  demanded,  what  we  mult  doe./or
our  {clues  in  the  time  of  plague,famine,  fyord  ?  Wemult  puts
Wolg
