---
page: 227
pdf_page: 249
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap.3.
235
Chriſt,  then  ſhall  we-walke  in  (afetie  io  all  dangers.  This  gar-
ment  ſeruesnot  onely  for  a  coucring
of  our  ſhame,  but  alſo  for
proteRtion.//a.4-6.
And  if  webe  taken  away  in  ary  common  iudg-
ment,  beeing  clothed  with  Chriſt,  there  is  no  more  hurt  done  to
5.  vsthen  to  him\:andhg  carrieth  vs
in  his  breſt,asif
we  were  part  of
Lathyahoogh  we be
clothed
with'Chrilt  in
baptif
we
with'Chrilt  in
ilme,  -  yet  we
mult  further  deſireto  be  clothed  vpon.  2.Cor.  5.441  p
this  life
weare
clad  with  the  iuſticeof  Chrilt,z.Cor,  1.30,thisis  one  garment,  In
10  the  life  tocome,we  ſhall
be  clad  with  immortalitie.  T  his  is  the  ſc-
cond  garment  to  be  vpon  the  former.
Varſe.28,  There  is  neither  Jewenor  Gretian,coc,T  heſe  words  (as
I  have  faid)  containean  anſwerto  an  obieRtion,  which  is  this:  If
allbelecuers
the  Gentiles  be  children  of  God,  and  all  puc
15  on  Chriſt,  then  there  is  no  difference  betweene  lewe  and  Gen-
tile,and  the  prerogative  of  the  [eweis  nothing.  Pa»/anſwers  thus:
there  be  ſundry  differences  of  mien  in  reſpect
of  nation,conditi-
on,ſexe:  yet  in  reſpeR  of  Chrilt,all  are  one.
Moreouer,]  have  ſhew-
ed,  that  theſe  words  containe
the  ground  ofthe  Adoption  of  the
20  Galatians,  which  is  an  vaion  with  Chrift,  whereby  all  belce-
uers  are  made  one  with  him,  There  remaine  other  things  to  be
By  occaſion  of  this  text,two  queſtions
are  mooued,the  anſwer
whereof  ſerues  much  to  clearethe  meaning  of  P.-u/,  The  birlt  is,
85  whether  Magiltracie  and  gouernment  be  peceſlary  in  the{ocieties
of  Chriſtians?  Auſwer.  Yea:  Kingrand  Qneenes  ſhall  bet  nowreing
fathers  and  nourcing  mothers  to  the  Church  of  God,  faith  the  Prophet,
Iſa.49.23.  Pan  bids  ys  pray  for  Kings  andallin  autboritieythat  wemay
line  inpeace  and  godlneſſe,  1  Tim.2,4,  The  ftift  Commaundement,
50  Homovr  thy  father,  &c.  requires  ſubieRion  to  authoritie  :  and  this
commandementis  cternall.
Obreftion  I,  All  beleeners  are  one  in  Chri  :  therefore  there  is
no  ſubieRion  among  them.  An/zer.  Beleevers  are  vader  atwo-
fold  Eſtate  or  Regiment  :  the  felt  is,the  Regiment  of  this  world,
5  incivill  ſocietie:  the  ſecondis,  the  regiment  of  the  Kiogdome
of  heaven,  which  ſands  in  1r#tice,  peace  of  conſcience  ioy  im  the
boly  Ghof?,
In  the  firſt  eſtate,  theye  are  ſundrie  differences  of
perſons  that  beleeve:  ſome  fathers  and  mothers,  ſomechildren,
ſome  maſters  and  ſervants,  fome  Magiſtrates  and  ſubieRs.  Inthe
40  ſecond  eſtate,  there  are  vo  outward  differences  of  men,  but  all
are  members  of  Chrci(t,  andall  once  in  him.  Thus  mult  the  text
bee  vnderſlood,
Q  3
Oh,
