---
page: 228
pdf_page: 250
---
Chap.3-
|  4ACommentarit  vjon
236
Obuition  1...  Belecuets  are  goucrped  by  Gods|[pirit,and  ther-
fore  outward
gouerment  by  magiſtrates  js  needleſte.  A4n/w.  In  the
viible  C
hypocrites  are  miogledwith-trve  beleeuers,  and
they-are  not  governed  by  Gods  ſpirit,  'but  by  the  {pirit  ofthe  de,
vill;  and  therefore  in  reſpeRt  of  themcinill  authority.  is  jrequilite,  5
Againe,  true  beleevers  arebutin  part  gouerned  by  the
Spirit,  for
the  time  of  this  life.  And  tocthis  cabſe;cauillgouernmet  js  requiſite,  -
for  the  ordering  of  the  outward  m1anzand  for  the  proteRion  of  the
Church.
Obiebt,  IT  I.  They  that  are  in  Chriſt,  are  freed  from  nne,  and  1,
conſequently,from  ſubieRian  which  followes  vpon  fiane.  Anſw,
$ubiectionis  cither  politique,,  orſervile.  Politicke  is;wheo  men
are  ſuhiect  fot  their  ownegood:  and  this  was  beiore  the  fall,  yeil-
ded  by  Exe  to  Adm.  Servile  ſybietion,when  they  are  fubietfor
the  good  of  their  malters\:and;  this  onely  comes  ot  linne,  Againg,  1,
ſbicRion  with  ioy  was  beforetbe  fall:  ſubieRion.ioyned  with
paine  and  tory  4  oo  vpon  linne\:Gen,  3.16.
T  he  ſecond  quellinn  is,  whether  bondage,in  which  ſome  are
gion?  Az/w.  It  may,  in  the  countries  where  it  1s  eſtabliſhed  bypoli-  1,
tive  lawes,  if  it  be  vicd  with  mercy  and  moderation.  Righteous  4-
brabam  had  in  his  owne  houſe,  bond(laues  :  Ger.17.13.  God  did
permit  the  Jewes
to  buy  thecbildren  ofthe  Canderies,Lew,  25.45.
P  av  {aith,
If  any  man  be  called  beeing
a  ſernant  Os  benwdmen,  let  bim  nu
care  forit,1.Cor.J.21.
Obiettiow  I,  Be  not  ſernants  of
men.1.Cor.7.2;,  Anſw,  Thatis,
in  _—  of  conſcience,  the  ſubiection  whereotmult  be  reſerued
to
Obieflien  17,  Chriſtians  hayelibertie  by  Chrift  :  and  where
liberty
is,there  may  be no  bondage.
Anſwer.  Chriitians  obtaine
by  zo
Chrilt  ſpirituall  libertiein  this
life,  and  bodily  libertieinthelife  to
come.
Obictlin  117.  Bondage  is  againſt  the  law  of  nature.  Anſwer.
Againlt  the  law  of  pure  nature,  created  in-  innocencie,  not+
gain(t  the  lawe  of  corrupt  nature,  the  fruite  whereof  is  bon-  5}
da  oy)
,  Obieltion  IV.  All  are  one  in  Chriſt  :  therefore  the  difference
of  bond  men  and  free-men  mull  ceaſe.  A».  All  are  one  in  reſpect
of  the  inward  r1an,or  in  reſpect  of  taith  &  fellowſhip  with  Chrilt:
but  all  arenot  one  inreſpect  of  the  outward  man,and  in  regard  of  48
ciuill  order,
The  ſenſe  then  of  the  Text  is  this,  There  are  —}
