---
page: 251
pdf_page: 273
sortable_pagination_id: "251"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.
4.
259
ly,hee  is  a  divine  perſon,  and  pa  creature,  becauſe  heUwels  inthe
hearts  of  all  belecuers:,  thirdly,hee  proceeds  from  the  Father  and
the  5onne  :  trom  the  Father,becauſe  hee  is  ſentof  hin  :  from  the
Soune,  becaule  he  is  the  ſpirit  of  the  Sonne.
©  Thevie.  By  this  we  learne.that  the  Ioterce(fion  of  Chriſhisof
force  wit  h
God.  Forhe  praied  for  the  ſending
of  the  Spirit,aodit  is
accompliſhed.  Reade  /ohn  14.  15.
And  it  ts  a  ſuperfluous  doftrine,  toteachthe  Reall
preſence
of  the  fleſh  of  Chriſt  in  the  Sacrament.  For  Chriff
1s  departed
4Q  from  vs  in  reſpeRt  of  his  manhood:  becauſe
the  Spirit  is  ſent,
labn.16.7..'
11,
20057
Thirdly,  that  which  the  Spirit  inwardly  teacheth;  is  thefame
with  that  wbich  the  Sopne  hath  revealed  by  theminifilerie
of  the
Prophets  and  Apoliles,  becauſe  the  Spirit  is  the  Spirit  of  the  Son.
I5  Reade  Tobw  16,14,  Docrines  then  concerning  ſalvation,that  are
belide,or  contrary  tothe  Scriptures  (as  #
great  part  of  the  Romiſh
religion  is)  are  notregcalted'by  che  Spirit  of  God,  but  arethe  fiRi-
ons  of  the  divell;
The  perſon  fending,
1s  God,that  is,  the  Father,  in  theſe  words,
29  God  ſent  foorth  the  Sperit  of  bis  Sonne,  Where  marke  the  diltintion
of  the  perſons  in  T  rivitie,  'T  here  is  the  Father;the  Sonve,  and  the
Spirit
of  the  Sunne,  And  heereremember;that  this  aRion  of  ſen-
dingfoorrh,  argues  not  ſuperioticie  in  the  perſon  ſending,  tor  infe-
rioritie  in  =
1  ſent:  (for  equalls  may  fend  each  other  by
5.common
conſent;  )  butitargues  order,  and  a  diſtin  ion  of  per-
ſonsioreſpeRtof  their  beginning,  |  For  the  Father  is  of  none,  the
Sonme  isot  theFather,and  the  holy  Ghoſt  is  of  both  :  and  hence  it
isthat
be  i»  ſent  of  both,
207,
31
Themanver  of  this  ſending  foorth  ,  wason  this  ſort.  We  tay
30.  not  imagite  chat  in  this  ſending,  there  was  any  change
of  place:
For  the  Holy  Gholt  is  every  where.  Hut  hee
is  ſaid  to  beeſent
foorth,  when  hee  maniteſlshis  preſence  by  his  divine  operation,
or  by  ſpeciall  and  ſupernaturall  gifts  in  the/  hearty  of  belecuers,
asby  tbe  gitr  of  illumination,  faith,  regeneration,  Lite,  ſenſe  and
35  motion  ire  the  gitts  of  the  Spirit  ,  and  fo  are  civill  vertues:  but
the  ſending  of  the  Spirit1s  vnely  in  reſpet  of  ſuch  gifts  asare  be-
ſtowed  in  the  Church,  inthe  receiuing  of  which,  the'Spirit  igac-
knowledged.
The  place  or  manſion  of  the  Spirit  is  the  heart,that  is,the  mind,
40:  will,  and  affeQion.  T
be  beart  is  thevery  linke  of  linne;  yet  that
doththe  Spirit  chooſe  for  his  abode.  Hence  welcarne.
3..  Thatthe  beginaivg  of  ouraew  birth  is  inthe  heart,  when  a
new
