---
page: 252
pdf_page: 274
sortable_pagination_id: "252"
---
Chap.4-
A  Commentarie  pon
260
new
light  is  put  into  the  minde,  a  new  and  beauenly  diſpoſition
into  the
will  =  affection.
*  2.  Themoltprincipall  partof  our  —__  or  renouation,isin
the  beart,  where  the  ſpirit  abides.  The  end  of  all  teaching  is  law
out  of  a-pure  heart  good  conſcience
and  faith  unfained,1.Tum.s  5,
3.  The  beginning
and  principall  part
of  Gods  worſhip  is  in  the  ;
heart.  Hee  that  ſerues  God  ia  the  righteouſne(le  of  his  heart;in
peace,andioy  in  theholy  Gholt,is  accepted;Rom.  14.17.
.4,  In  our  hearts  nowicked  or  carnall  thought,  will,  defire,cr
loſt  moſt  rejgne,  but  onely  Gods  word  and  Spirit.  For thy  heart
is  the  houſe  where  the  Spirit  dwells,  and  hee  mult  be  Lord
of  his
es
chand
herdtptuaai
$.
watchand  wa
fl  it  withall  good  cogitations  and  delires,  that  it  may  be  a  bit  place
of  eatertainment
for the  pirit,whois  (as  it  were)an  Emballadour  1,
ſcat  from  the  great  God  vnto  thee.
Thelaſtthiog
is,the  office  ofthe  ſpirit,  whichis,
to  make  beles
uerscric,  1bba.  Here  I  conſider
4.  things  :  1.  The  meanes  where
by  this crie  iscauſed.  2.  Thenature
of  it.  3.  To  whom  itis  dire-
Red.  4.  Themaner
of  direction.
ann
Ring  or  cauling
of
thiscrie,therearefour  ©
"  For  thefirlh,j
works
of
theSpiri
hen  aman-in  hisindg
ment  and
i  cempitied,  thasthg  beatprorgs  of
Both
pheta  and
Apaliies  gre
inceed
ed
the  word
of  God.  To
thisputpole
of
re
aremany  arguments
which  now  I
omit.  This  conoiRtionisy
2  common  worke  of  the  {pirit  ,  yet  neceſſary,becauſe
much
theiſmelies  lurking  in  our  hearts,  which  makes  vs  call  into  quell-
on  every  part  of  the  word  of  God,
Theſecond  worke  is  Swbieftion,  whereby  a  man  convicted
that.
theScripturgand  every  part  of  it,is  the  word  of  God,ſubieAshim-  y
ſafe
in  hisheart  ta  thecommandement  of  God  ,  which  bids  him
curnetaſzod,and  belecuein  Chriſt.  And  this  ſecond  is  a  wockeof
the
ſpirit  of
proper
to  the  ele.
chiedioghe  Certificateor  teſtimony  of  theſpirit,  which  isz
£3
divine  mencerotreaſoolng  framed
in  the  minds  of  them  thatbe  g
_—
eand  repen,00  this  manner  :
Hethatbeleenes  and  repents,  is  Godrchild,  Tha:  ſaiththe  Goſpel,
But  [  beleene  in  Chriit,
and  repent  :  at  the  leaf?  I  ſubieft  my  wil
40
10  the  commanndement  which  biddges  mee  repent  and  beleene  :/  de-
teit  mime  wubeleefe,  and  all  my  ſinnes  ;  and  deſire  the  Lord  tain  @
creaſe  my  faith,
Therefore  1  am  the  childe
of  God,
Thi
