---
page: 254
pdf_page: 276
sortable_pagination_id: "254"
---
Chap.4-
A  Commentarie
pow  ©  -
"2623
to  thecommandement
of  God,which  bids  thee  beteevein
Cheill,
if  thou  canſt  ſay;that  thou  oeſt  willty
God,  For
and  tornevnto
\belecue,ahd  willto  repent,it  thou  (ſhew  this  will  indeed  intheyſe
and
thy  ynbeleefe,
and  deteft
if  thou  condemne
of
\alother  thy  (ins,thou  haſt  received  the  earvelt  of  theſpirit;6thou  5
-act  indeedthechild  of  God,  And  this  atſurance  ſhall  be  vatothe:
of  great  vie.  For  it  will  maketheereiofce  *  _  Pr
wil  make
worke  patience,experience,hope,Rom.  5.  5.1t
thirmonld,  it  will  take  away  thefeareot  death,  and  kindle  inthy
heart  adelire  to  bewith  Chriſt,
T  ng  oature  of  this  crie,  it  ſtands  in  the  deſires
and
nes  of  the  heart,  direQed  voto'God,  And  theſe  der
be  iſtioguiſhed  from  all  carnall  deſires,  by  three  properties,
of  all,they
are  in  the  hearts
of  them  that  are  turned't
o  God;  orxt
the  lealt
beginve
to  turnevntohim.  For  God  heareth
no  ſingen,)
Secondly,  they  are  conceived  in  the  minde  ——_————  ,
uealed  will  of  God,
Rom.  $:2y.1.70hn  5.14.  Third!
re  d;-
Ys
vine  and  ſpirituall,couching  things  which  concerne
the  kingdomt!
of  God,  Row.8.s$.
|  Deſires  thus  qualified,  hauethe  force  of  a  loud  crie  in  theearny,
of  God.  P/alm.10.17,  God  beareth  the  deſire  of  thepoore.  Pſaim.;\g.
All  wy  deſires  are  beſorethee,  Pſal.145.19.  Hefulfilleth  the  deffirrofthen
that  feare  him.  1/as.64.2  4.  Before  theyorrie,  [  will  anſwer  :  thatis;o
ſoone  as  a  deſire  of  my  belpeis  conceiued,and  before
ic  be  vitered
I  will  an(wer.
That  the  deſires  of  our  hearts  are  cries,it  is  by  meanes  of
theiv-
terce(hovof  Chrilt,”
T  his  Interceſſion  is
not  a  vic  all  but  a  vorud
prayer,  inthatthe  Sonneof  God  preſents  his  manhood  and
bi
.  merits  before  the  Father  in  heauen,williog  as  God,  and  defi
man,that  the  Father  ſhould  accept  the  ſaid  merits  for  v3. Now
this
will  znd  deſire  ofthe  Sonne;isofgreat  force  with  the  Father.  Ita
criein  which  the  Fatheris  well  pleaſed:  and  by  it  the  deſires
of  ont
hearts  are  cries  intheeares  of  God.
IIS
Of  thele  delires  there  bee  two  ſpeciall  examples  inthe  Scrip
cures.  The  firſt  iswhen  we  aretouched  in  our  hearts  for  our  ling  1s
to  flic  tothe  throne  of  grace,  &  to  delire  reconciliation  with  God
in  Chrilt,  When  Damd  did  but  delirerhe  pardon  of  his  ſign,
and  theretore  purpoled  in  his  hcart  to  humble  himſelfe,  heere-
ceived  pardon;  Pſaime  32,  5.  I  ſaid,  |  will  confeſſe  my  wicked
againit  my  ſelfe  unto  the  Lord  ,  and  thou  forganeit  t  be  puni/oment  os
my  ſine.  When  the  p—__  ſonne  conceived  a  delire  to  bee  6,
conciled  to  his  father,  with
apurpoſeto  confelle  his  offence,
