---
page: 256
pdf_page: 278
sortable_pagination_id: "256"
---
al  Comentarie  pon  -  M4
Sowe'fay  ythattheScints  in  heaven/aze  with  God,  and  that  in  hin
theyſaethegelicea  of
oprhearts:  butitis  talſewhich
hey  ſay,  For
the  Geriptore  (a.th,
that)  God  a/cre  ſexrobetbrbe
beart)  1.  K  my.  $.z5,
None  knowes  what  is.io-man,  but  God,
and the  ſpirit  of  man;1,
Cor,  3.1  1.  Though  Abrabern  bad  the  light
of  God,
yet  is  itfaid,
Thowart.ovr.
ahem  knower  us  wn;  ifas,  64.16,  Andiar
thiscauſe,  [nuocation  of  Sainte,  whether  itbecalted;Cooria,
orDs  ov  Þ  1
we  oa
non  all
fatidolatriicnc  bigs!  oro
&a,  ir
Againe,  Prayer  is  to  bee  made  to  God  as  he  bath  revealed  bim-
ſelfe  inthe  word;  that  is,to  INT  Gl
Chrifl,
and
ip  him ove  Eather,whaajſo
lends
bis  ſpiritinto  oor  hearts,  aying
Abba.  a
reynont-  af  v7  IT  OTE,  rants  =»,
ny  among  vs)to  pray  to  anabſolute  God,that  is,to  God  outel
the
dbaly
Spirit.
SE
mA
true  and  piritoall
T  hirdly,here  Fs
iouocation
of  God
is  atnarke  ofthe  Church  of  God:  becauleitis  afruiteof  the  pint
of  Godin  them  that  are  thechildren  of  God.
And  by  this  thipes.  y  |  #1
ple  of  God  are  noted,  Af.g.  14.1.Cor.  1.2,and  on  thecommary;iti
the  markeofan
Atheiltnot
to  pray,  Pſal,114.4;/'!!  /1-
19  ni?
The  laſt  poynt  is,  themannerof
ing
oor  eries
to  God,
Firſt  of  all,  they  are  to  beedirected
to  him
with
reverence,
x  bes
iogpreſcat  with  vs:  for  to  crie  4664,  is  notto  fpeake  wordsin-gg
totheayre,  but  todireft
our  hearts  to  opethat  is-preſent  withvy,
inalldutifulland  childlike
Thus  did  Daw,  P
(aime  119,
58.and  Pr,  Epbeſ.  3.14.
y,  our  cries  areto
dre
God  with  ſubieQion  to  bis  will..  Reade  the  example
of  Chill,
HMarke  14.36.  andof  Danid,  2.Sammnel  15,26,  This  condemue
thepraQifeof
many  men.  Ba/aem  deliredto  diethedeath  of  the
fr  wang
tetpenoan  e  o
the
lite  of
theri
among  Vs
motionsand  deſires
in  their  minds  ,  Latebergio  no
founduatel
them  :  becaufethey
are not  ioyned  with  a
e  and  converſion  1
of  heart
and  life.  T  hirdly,our
deſires  areto  be
direed
vntoGod
with  importunitie
apd  inconſtancie.  For  the
Spirit  makes
vs  ane
Abba,  Father
: .
that.isz  My  Father,and
thy  Father,  God  requires
this  impotuniticof  vs,Zuke  18.  1,  It  is  practiſed  by  Dawid,  Pſalms
C9.4,  by  the  woman  of  Canaan,Marth,  15,  We  mult  doeas  Jab  Þ
did,  wraſtle  with  God,  and  giuehim  no  ret  till  he  folfill  che  deſires
of  our  hearts  and  givevsthe
bleſſing.  And  onrentſian;  Gret
