---
page: 257
pdf_page: 279
sortable_pagination_id: "257"
---
the  Epiſtle
80  the  Galatians,
and  groanesto  heauen
for  mercie,  ſhall  never  bee  in  vaine,  For  it
wee  aske  any  Nos  YR  nets  TE
will,  hee  m—_—  vs.  —_—
1.lobn  $.14.
'\
Theſe  words  are  the  concluſion  of  the  former  doctrine  of  Pav!.
Thetime  of  yourlibertje  is  cone,  iothat  A  edthetprk  procured
andp  urchaſed  by  Chriſt,  2  ap6  ye
yehave  receiued  et
Abba.  therefore  y  c
tort  Ho
oab
of  the  third  =
tothis  Deb:  that  they  which
ae  "pbk  azallo  beires
heices,  not  by  I
i  A
by
15  "This  verſe  isa'  OO
ab&'t9,  Vi  Rl
Chapeet-:  thera
therefore  I  willBoe  (labd  any  Iopgeria.che
——
MA
ve  ihe  wh  eued,  wv  thechangedf  the  pum-
Je  are
(xpokeg
ah  a  4  put
30  Ala  this  He  ries  oy
t6  reachvs,chatth  ebich  t  turns
'beleeueih  Chriſt,  tmultbee  aſſured  that  they.  are  the  Cape
beires  of  God.  Pas!  hath  (&t  downeimiHieciarly  :  do
I,
ble  ſigne,  whereby  a  man  may  know  hiwilelfe  to  beethe  childe  of
God:  therefore  in  the  next  wordes  hee
Lt
thou  art  the
35  ſobne  of  God.  Safne
ring  Oi  T6008
ce  wr  e  mo
you  that
wy  enggee  ay
fre  ids  p  Fi
Ba.s.  13,
vs  muſtevery  rh
ne
'of  to  himſelfe.
PPT  .
cept
wn
The  meditation  ofthis  point  ſerues  vreat!  toſweetenallcroſſes
30  vnto  vs:  forifwe  know  that  we  be  God:
re,  thati
is
comtort
enough  ;  and  wee  may  then  alſure
ut  feluet,that
ih  every
Tolle,
Godcomes  vntovs
as  afather,  Agaloe,  thismedication  workes  a
contentation  in  every  loſſe.  Forif  thou  be  the  child  of  God,  thou
RC  ___
reat  loſſe.  For  all  things  are  thine,  thow  Chriſti,  and
GL  or.  3,22,  Laltly  docs  [ret  ng
.  35  Chrift  Gods,1
acarefo  leade  a  heauen  and  ret
m3
t  we  ina
belike  our  eldeſt  b
Rleſps.
$  _
But  euenthen  when  yee
;  kme  not  Ga
Je  4a
ſervice  on-
40  10  them,which  by  nature  are  nat  Gods,
1/9  Bu  now  ſte  _—  ry  or.  rather  arc
nawnef
Goa,
