---
page: 236
pdf_page: 258
---
Chap.4
A  Commentarie
pon
2244
ſhame  of  ys  all.  Forin  reſpeftof
(as  the  moſt  doe)isthe
the
we  ſhould  all  be  teachers,  Heb.g.12.  and  yet  God  koowes,
doderocg  doug
——  oe  pn
dealing
anſwer,  |  fer  uing  Wwy
(cruing
ow
Y-
:  and  hisprayers  are  the  Beleck,  ,
Godzis  hisſaying  of  bis  p
of  God,
.  Thisisa  poore
and  the  ten  Commay
fitter  for  babes,  then  for  men  of  yeares.  1t  is  further  to  beobſer-
ved,  that  Paw/faith,
the  fathersof  the  old  Teſtament  were  is  bus
dage  under  the  law,  after  themanner  of  ſeruants,  ſpecially  by  rex
ceremonies.  And  hence  it  followes,
ſon  of  rites  and
that  the  ob,  ,,
in  which  are  manifold  b  —
ion,
ſeruation  of  a
gures,is  a  kind
and  pertaines
tothe  C
timeofheriafancieorr
this  beeremembced
again
the  Romiſh  religion  :  for  it is  like  to  that  of  the  lewes  in  theolde
Teſtament,
ing
for the
{t  part
in  bodily  rites;in  diffe.  'i
rences  of  meates
Jrinkes,  fa
differcnces  of
times,
ments;  in  exerciſes,  and  affliionsof
the  bodie,  in  locall
ceſſion,  in  the  collation.of  Ee  Sopatarne  nth
T  his  is  manifeſt  to  them
know  the  aſe3which
indeedis
nothing  but  a  m«ſſc  of  ceremonies,  Therefore
the  Romane  reli.  ,,  þ
gionis
a  childiſh  and  babiſh
religion
:  and  if it  were  of  (
itnot  fitforthe  Charchof  the New  Tellamene  ,  _——
timein  which
the
tivitie
By  ranqes
ibertic
beg)  =
called  «
:  and  it is
reation
was  ended  4000,  yeares  f
ime  becaule  it  was
deſigned  and
the  will  and
proui-*
dence  of  the  heauenly  Father.  For
pn  fo  ings
ſos  are  in  his  hand:  and his  will  or  providence  makes  times  fitor
Cary  eng  God  mich  bby  biepronten  appoint
T  bis  mult  teach
vs,  when  by  prayer  wee  aske  any  goodthing#t
Gods  hand,not  to
preſcribe
any  time vato  God,  bene  _—_
pd  yen  ==  gaine,if  thoulive  in  any  miſery,  waite
on  the
and  bee  content.  For  that  isthe  ft  and  beſt  time
of  thy
deliverance,  which  God  bath  appoynted,  Laffly,  thou  mull  bet
admoniſhed  to  pray  to  God  for  grace  and  miercie,  and  toture®
to  him  this  day  before  to  morrow,  For  this  is  the  time  which
God  hath  appoynted  for  theſe  dueties:  7his  i  the  day  of  a
