---
page: 237
pdf_page: 259
---
245”
.  the  Epiſtle  tothe  Galatians.
Chap.4.
and  therefore  the
'fit  times  Hobrewes  3.7.  Pſalme  22.6.
Thus  much  of  the
ſimilitude  :  now  I  come  to  the  firſt  reaſon,
whereby  Pan/confirmes  his  maine
argument.  Chriſt  bath  purcha-
ſed  and  procured  'yovr  libertie  :  therfore
the  timethereof  1s  come
5  andpaſt,  Forthe  better  clearing  ofthisreaſon,P»/  ſets  downe  the
way  andordee  which  was  ved  in-procuring  this  libertie,  And  ic
containes
five  degrees.  The  firſt  is;  the
ſending
of  the  Sonne;
the
ſecond;  his'incarnation;  the  third,  his  fabie&ion  to  the  Taw;  the
fourth,
our  redemption  from  thelaw;  the  fift,  the  fruition  of  our
0  adoption,  ver[.4,5,
T  hefirlt,the  ſending
of  the  Sonne,in  theſiibrds,  In  rhe  falveſ+  -
rineyG
fant  forth  bir  Sean."  Thitt  ran  tre  eſo
evflterie,  lixe  oner  in  brpirintnys  een
T  he  firſt
is,  what  is  meant
by  God  ?  Anſwer.  T  he  Father,the  firlt
15  perſon,  Epbeſc1.  3.3  leſſed  be  God  the  Farber  of  wer  Lord  Ieſwa  Chriſt,  2-
Cor,  _
Tob.20.17.  And  heis  called  God,  not  becauſe
he  partakes
more  of  the  Godbeadthen  the  Son,or  theholy  Ghoſttbur  becauſe
heiscbe  firftin-order  of  the  three  wer  peer  'and  he  isthe  be-
ginning  ofthe  Sonne,and  the  holy
Ghoft;
and  bath'no  begioning
20  of  his  owne  perſon  :  becauſe  he  doth  not  receive  the  Godhead  by
communication
from  any  other:  1a  this  reſpect  bes  is-called  God
more  ys  coeſ
the  Spapger  n—_—  Nh  yy
'Th
weltion  is,”  How  the  Father  ſendstheSoone
Anſwer,  By  his  counſel!  and  etervall  decree,  wherebythe  Sonne
5  was  deſigned  to  the  officeof  a  Mediatour,  and  conſequently  to
become  man,  Ae/z.23,  Andthus  is  hee  ſaid  tobee  ſealed  of  rhe
Father,  lohn  6,27,  and  to  bee  fanitified,  and  ſent  into  the  world,  [ob
160.35,  Andtherefore  this{endingimplics  noalterationorchange
ofplac
30.  The  thirdqueſtion  is  ,  whether  the  Sonne  was  ſent  with  his
owne  conſent  or  no?  Anſwer.  Teaghe  decree  of  the  Father  is  the
decreeof  the  Sonne,  and  the  holy  Gholt  :  becauſe  as  they  areall
one
iti  nature;ſoarethey  all one  in  will
All  the  perſans  then  have  a
ſirgkeiothis  ſending,  yet  for  orders  lake  the  Father  is  aid  tolend,
I  becavſe  he  is  firlt,
The  fourth  queſtion  is,  how  the  Father  can  ſend  the  Sonne,
conſidering  theyare  both  one?  Anſwer,  In  the  doftrine  touching,
the  Trinitie,NVatwre,and  Perſon  mult  bee  diffioguiſhed,  Natare  is
+Tubilance  common  to  many,  as  the  Godbead.  A  perſon  is  that
40  whichſub(iſteth  of  it  ſelfe,and  hath  s  proper  manner  of  fublilling,
as
the  Father  begetting,  the  Sonne  begotten,  the  boly  Ghoſt  peo-.
ceeCing,  Now  the  Father  and  the  Sonne  are  one  indeed  for  nature
ors.  i
