---
page: 26
pdf_page: 48
sortable_pagination_id: "26"
---
A  Commentarie  pon
Chap.  1-
and  iuſtific  his:
owne  calling,  to  the  office  of  an  Apoſtle.  This
ſerues  to  giue  <<
to  ſuch  perſons  as  vſe  to  litte  and  rehearſe
their  wicked
li$&spaſt  in  boaſting
and  reioycing  manner,
la  Pax/s  example  there  he
two  things  to  be  conſidered,hispro-
19  his  converſation,  His  profeſſion
was  g
fellion  before  his  callin
ludaiſme  :  and  this  hindred
him  from  imbracingthe  goſpel.  It  may
red
here  be  demanded,what  Iudaiſme,or
the  lewiſh  religion  is  ?  4»/w.
In  the  daies  of  Chriſt,  andthe  Apoſtles,  there  were  three  ſpeciall
-  ſets  among  the  lewes,  Efleis,  Saduceis,  and  Phariſes,  And  the
Phariſes
were  the  principall,  and  theie  dotriae  was  commonly  40
-  imbracedof
the  Jewes.  And  therefore
by  ludaiſme(as  |  cake  it)
Phariſciſme  is  here  meant,  Now  the
principall  doctrines  of  the
Phariſes  were  theſe,  [They  beld that
was  one  God,and  that
this  God  was  the  Father,  without  any  diſtiaRion  of  perſons  :  for
when  Chriſt  meotioned  the  diſtiaion  ofthe  Father,and  the  Son,  *5
they  would  not  acknowledgeit,lob»  8.19.  1  1.  They  acknowledged
'  in  the  Meflias
bot  one  nature  :  for  when  it  was  asked  them  how
Chriſt  being  the  ſonne  of  D«vid,ſhould  nevertheleſſe  be  his  Lord,
they  could  not  anſwer,  Math.22,  111,  They  held  that  the  king-
dome  of  the  Mellias,
was  an  earthly  kingdome  :  and  with  this
opi-  **
nion,the  Diſciples
of  Chriſt  were  tainted,  I  V.  They  held,chat  the
keeping  of  the  morall  law,  ſtood  in  externall  on
one
by  the  ſpeeches  of  Chriſt,  reforming
their  errours,  Aath.  5.5.7,
cha  .  V.  They  maintaineda  naturall
freedome  of  the  will,  in  the
obſeruing  of  the  law.Luk.18.Lord  I  thanks  thee(Gaith  the  Phariſie)  55
I  dee  thus  and  thus.  V  1,  They  helda  juſtification
by  the  workes  of
'the  law,without  the  obedience  ofthe  Meſſias.Row.9,3.  V  I  I.  Be-
fide  the  written  word  and  law  of  Aoſer,they  had  many  vawritten
traditions,which  they  obſerued  preciſely  :  and  the  obleruation  of
them  was  accounted  the  worſhip  of  God,  Matb.a5.3.9.  Other  39
yon  they
held,  but  theſe  are  the  25/5  qi  lt  may  further
how  __  _  mg  d  bo  Ong  dam-
'Nnable
opinions,  and
yet
e  of  God  ?  Anſwer.  They
-had  for  their  parts  forſaken  God  :  but:  God  had  not  forſaken  them,
"becauſe  the  Temple  was  yet  ſtanding,  and  the  ſacrifices  with  the  15
outward  worſhip,yet  remained  among  them.[nthis  regard,  they
were  (till  a  reputed
e  of  God.  Apgaine,  they  are  called  a
people  of  God,  not  of  the  bigger,  but
of  the  better
part  :  and
the  betrer  part  was  a  ſmall  remnant  of  them,  that  trucly  feared
God,and  beleeued  in  the  Meſſias.  Of  which  ſort,were  /  olepby  Marie  42
Z  acharieyElizabeth  Simeon,  Ana,  loſeph  of  Arimathia,  Nicodemuc.
Againe;it  may  be  demanded,  how  the  leyes  becing  ſuch  a  py
