---
page: 260
pdf_page: 282
sortable_pagination_id: "260"
---
Chap.4.
A  Commentarie
pou
Sanne,Mcoone,and  Starresare  worſhipped,  &c.and  thisis  thegraf
the
ſeft  kindeof  idolatric.  Theſecond  isvheo  men  acknowledge
and
iucd,
true  God,  but  doe not  conceiue  bim,as  he  will  bee
as  he  hath  revealed
bimſelfe  inthe  word.
la  this  reſpeR  che  Ephe.
fiavs  are  ſaid  rg  pr  rg  ng  _  —
worſhip  they  kyow  mot  whaty/obn
4.22;
For
they
conceiyed
the
true
God  is
a  falſe  manner,  becauſe  they
bimfoorth
of  the
Father;Sopue,  and  boly  Ghoſt:  and  thereforcthey  ſet  vp  afalk
godvuto  themſelues,  Halle  wolbip  given  to
«  alle  opinion  of  Go  Lgerren
true
ox  falſe  godljio  the  rome  of  the
to  conceive
ſome  truethings  of
God,
ceive  him,  as  hee  hath  revealed  himſclfc
detraQtiop.  And  thus  did  the  wiſeſt  of  the  Galatians  worſhip,
falle  gods.
T  his  Idolatrie  is  a  common  (\pngand  bred  (as  it  were)'
bone.  The  Turkesatthisday  worfhip
a  falſe  and  fained  God,  For
they  conceive  and  worthip  a  God  creatour  of  heaven  and  earth,
thadis  neither  Father,Sonne,nor  holy  Gholt  :  and  the  lewes  wars
ſhip  God  out  of  Chriſt:  and  ſoa  fained  God.  For,  bee  wbichbabut  ty  |
the  Sennegbarh  notthe  Father.  John  2.  Likewile  the.rcligion
of  the
Papiſt  ceacheth
and  maintaineth  the  worthip  of  falfe  gods,  Farit
gives  to  Angels  and  Saints  a  facultie  or  power  to  kao's  thedeſires
of  our  hearts,to  heare  and  belpe  vs  in  all  places,  at  all  times  ;  and
hereypon  prayer  is  madetothem:  but  all  this  is  indeed  the  pry
rogatiueand  priuiledge
of  thetrueGod:  and  in  as  much  azitis
givento  Angels  and  Saints  departed,  they  are  (et  vpin
the  roome
of  the  true.  Qod.
Againe,  that  rcligion  teacherh  men  toworſkip
Gad,  io,at,and
betore  Images,  And  this  worſhip  preſuppoſeth  an
opivion  or  #
imagination  that  there  is  a  God  that  will  bee  preſent  to  heare  and
he!pe  vs,  in,  at,  and  before  Images  :  now  this  God  is  a  God  d&-
uited  by  the  braine  of  man,  Papills  alleadge,  that  their  iatention
is  to  worſhip  the  true  God,  the  tather,  Sonpe,  and  Holy
And  |  ſay  agaive,  thatthetrae  God  hath  revealed  bis  will  that  hee  55
docth  derelt  this  manner  of  worſhip:  and  therefore  the  worſhip
is  dirgAed  either  tothe  images  themlclues,  or  to  the  god  deuiled
wthe  braine,
T  hirgly,  threy  of  the  Popiſh  religion  worſhip  afained  Chrilt  of
their  one  deviſing  \:namely,a  Chriſtthat  (it>at  the  right  handof  4
the  Fatherin  heaucn,
and  1s  withall  in  che  hands  of  every  Prieſt
.at-
tertbe  words  ut  coplecration,  And  they  worſhip  a  God  (\:t  ;
pby
ey,
