---
page: 239
pdf_page: 261
---
the  Epiſtle  ro  the  Gal#hians.
#Chap:4.
bei
God-min;andchat  in  cime;  in  reſpeR  of  bork  his  136463.
Jn
ofhiswanhood,becavſcit  is  received  into  the  vnity  gf
theſecond  perſon,  and  exalted  to  the  right  hand  of  God  in  hea-
ven.  [n  reſpe&  ofhis  Godhead,  the  Maielty  and  Lordſhip  whereof,
5  bedeclared  and  mademanitelt  in  the  fleſh  atrer  his  refurreRion.
[Thos  was  he  made  Lord  by  declaring  hicielie-co  be  6  indeede,
1002,  26/1
Rom,1,4."L.70m.3.16,
Thus  weſee  how  God  ſent  forth  his  Sonne':  the  vſe  followes.
ThisaRt  of  Godia  ſending,declares  bis  infinite  love:  for  this  ſen-
10-ding  wat  fortheir  ſakes  that  werethe  enemies
of  God,  And  it  fur-
her  lignifizsvnto  vs  the  molt free lone  of  God,  Fornothing  in  vs
[mooued
him  coſend,  buthis  owrie  ggodnefſe,  This  love  of  God
mult  mooueystoloue  God
againe,and  to  bethankfyll,
T  he  Sonne  of  God  takes  not  to  himſelte  the  office  of  a  Medii-
15  tour,  but  he  is  calledand  ſentforth  of  his  Father  :  whereby  two
_  are  ſignified;one,that  the  office  of'a  Mediatour  wasappoin-
the  Father
:  theother,  that  the  Soone!  was  deſigned  to  this
office  in-the  eternall  counſell  of  the  blefſed'  Trinity.  And  fo,that
we  may  pleaſe  Godin  ourcallings  aud  places,we  muſt  have  a  dou-
20  ble  afſurance  in  our  conſciences:  onegthat  the  offices  and  callings
which  we  pertorme.are  good,and  pleaſing  vnto  God:  thefecond,
that  we  aredeſigned  and  called  of  Godto  the  ſaid  offices  and  cal-
liogs.By  this  muſt  we  (tay  our  minds  in  all  our  miſcries,
The  Sonne  is
ſent  forth,that  is,  he  comes  from  his  Father;  Tayes
25  alide  his  maieſty,and  takes  on  him  the  condition  of  a  ſeruar?.  T  he
{ame  minde  mult  bee  invsto  humble  and  abaſe  our  ſelyes  before
God;  to  thinke  better  of  others  then  of  our  ſelues,  to  be  contene
with  our  condition,  to  be  well  pleaſed  when  we  are  deſpiſed  and
contemned,becauſe  we  are  worthy  ofit.  This  is  to  conforme  ouc
20  ſelues  to  Chriſt.
Thatthe  Sonne  of  God  himſclfe  muſt  be  ſent  forth  fromthe  bo-
ſomeof  his  Father,this  ſhewes  rhe  greatneiſe  of  oor  (linne  and”  mi-
ſery,which  was  the  occafion  ofthis  ſending.  Ant  this  muſt  teach
vs  with  bitterne(ſeto  hateand  deteſt  ourlinnes,which  fetched  the
35  Sonne  of  God  from  'heauen;  ind  ro  humble  (elves  with  Dand
even  to  the  deepes,  and  thence  to  pray  to  God  for  his  mercy.
Pal.  130  1.
vp
The  ſecond  point,natnely\the  Incarndtion  of  the  Sonne,  is  ex-
preſſed  in  theſe  words,  Maile
of  2  woman  +  that  is,  made  man,  or
40  made  fleſh  of  a
woman  The  word  was  waie  f!:/1./ob.1.14.Herethree
queſtions  are  to  be  handled,  The  brlt  ts,  why  the  Sonne  was
made  fleſh?  Zaſwer,  Thetebetwo  fpeciall  cauſes  hereof.  Firlt,  a
or
