---
page: 240
pdf_page: 262
---
Chap.  4-
A  Commentarie  fon
ſed,and  aſatiſtaRion-made,in  the  fame  nature  in  which  hire
was  offended.
Now  the  offence  was  in  mans  nature  :  andthere.
forein  it  muſtſatisfaction  to  God  be  performed.  Secondly,the  Me.
diatour  betweene
God  and  man,rult  be  bath  for  natureandecon.  ?
ditiog.in  the  meaue  betwecne  Godand  man;that  is;both  Godand
man:  and  thas  the  Sonne  of  God  is  a  perſe&  Mediatour,..  /
T  he  ſecond  queſtion  is,  how  farte
forth  the  Sonne  of  God  was:
made  fleſh  2  I  anſwer  three  things.  The  firlt,  that  he  tookevito
him  the  whole  and
perfeRt  nature  of  may  in\:reſpe  of  Eſſence,
'?
namely  th
intire
[aitzce  of  coaſorebleſoule,  and
humanebo.
dy.  Here  remember;that
quantity,  thatis,  length;
th,and
thickneſſe,isnot.an  accident  which  may  palleaodrepalle,butitis
of  the  ſub(tance  of  evesy  body,&theretore  of  the  body  of  Chill,
And  far  this  cauſe  ic  is  impoſlible  that  the  body  of  Chiilt  in  bis!
quantity,beeing  foure  or  fue  foote  inlength,  ſhould  be  included
io  the  compalle  of  a  peece  of  bread  that  is  but  two  cr  tbreeinchs
inquantity.  Thelſecondis,that  the  Sonneof
God  tooke  vatabim
the  properties  of  maps  nature,the  powersof  life,ſenſe,motionghe
acultie
of  reaſon,  will,  and  affection,
T  he  third  is,that  be
togketo*?
facult
him  the  infirmitics,apd  miſeries  of  mans  nature.  Here  tw
muſt
he  remembred.  The  firſt;thathetooke  ra  him  onelyſachin
firmities  ag  are  meere  ipfirmitics,and  no  (innes.For  an————_  |
the  words  of  Chrill,
Le:  this
cxppe  paſſe,  Mite26.lomeſay,t
was  obliuion  in  Chrilt  ;  but  this  may  not  beſaid.  For  obliuionisa”
luune,oamely,  a  forgetting  of  that  which  a  man  ought
to  remen-
ber  :  andthere
may  bein  Chrilt  or  other
men,  a  ſuſpendipg
ofthe
Memory,  by  ſome  extervall  and  violent  cauſa,  —
T  he  ſecond caveat  izgthat  the  Sonveof  God  tooke  to  bim  the  iv-
fiemities  which  pertaineto  the  nature  of  man,  andnot  fuchawpet-  Pp
tainetothe  perſons  of  en,
as
droplies,gouts,  conſumptiags,and
ſock (he:  or  he
onde  not  itepotonota  man,
but
the
gatuns
mengwit
appurtenan  So
'0f  excepe  (Gone,
The  third  queltien  is>  How  was
hemadefleſh  ?
Anſwer,
The
Ach  or  manhood  of  Chriſt,  was  firlt  framed,  theo
ſanRibed
is
3s
and  then  voited  to  the  Godhead  of  the  Sovne.  Rocco
he  made  man.  Remember  here  that  the  forming  of  the
Chriſt,  the  fanAifyingofit,  and  the/perſonall  Voion  arc  all  to-
gether  for  time  :  and  [diſtinguiſh  them  in  this  ſort,  ondly  for  &
doArines  ſake,
ln  the  ſraming  ofthe  manhood,  I  conſider  the  matter,  andthe
gt  be  Virgin,  ignibed  i
manuecy.  T  he  matter  yas  the  ſubllance
the.
