---
page: 241
pdf_page: 263
---
the  Epiſtle  tothe  Galatians,
Chap.4.
249
there  aogs  womas.  By  this  Chriſtis  diſtinguiſhed  from
all  meninthe
world  :  from  Adaw,becauſe  hee  was  neither  of  man
nor  woman,
but  of
red  clay.  From  Ec,becauſe  ſhee  was  made  of.
man,and  not  of  wornan.  From  all  that  come  of  44am  and  Ene,for
5  they  are  both  ofman  and  woman;  wheras  Chriſt  is  of  woman,  and
notof  man.  Againe,Paw!  addes  theſe  words,  [madeof  4  woman]  to
note  the  accompliſhment  ofthe  promile,  che  ſeed  of  the  woman  /zall
breakgthe  Serpents  bead,Gem.  3.1  5+
Themanner
of  framing  is  expreſſed,  when  Pas/  ſaith,mede,vot
otten
of  a  woman.  The  manhood  then  of  Chriſt,  was  framed
naturallgeneration,  by  an  extraordinarie  worke  of  the
boly-Gholt.  Heere  a  doubt  is  anſwered.  Some  man  may  ſay,  if
hee  were  made
of  a  woman,  hecomesof  Adam,  and
uents
ly  becis  a  (inner.  Anſwer.  The  order  ſet  downe  by  God  with
15  Adew  in  the  creation  is,  that  whatſoever
hee  loſeth,  all  hispo-
ſteritie  ſhall  loſe  that  comes  of  him
by  generation.  Vpon  this
order,  all  that
are
begotten  of  Adew.,  with
the  pature  of  man,
receiveche  ſinne
cruption  of.nature.  And  ſoſhould  Chriſt
haue  done,ifhe  haddeſcendedofe
£daw  by  generation.  Butconli-
z6  dering  his  fleſh  was  made  ofthe  ſubſtance  of  a  woman,and
nat  be-
gotten  ofany  man:  thereforehe
take  the  nature  of  man,  and  not
Theſandifyingofthe  manbood
of  Chriſt,  isa  worke  of  dinine
power,  whereby  at  thetime  of  the  framing
thereof,  it  was  filled
2;  With  the  gifts  ofthe  holy  Ghoſtaboue  meaſure,  that  he  might  in
both  natures  be  aperfeR  Saviour.  Here  obſerue;that  Chriſt  by  the
ations
of  hislife,did  not  merit  forbimſelfeglory,and  eternallhap-
pineſſe
:  becauſe  be  was  molt  worthy  of  all  glory  and  honour  ac
the  very  beſt  moment  of  his  conception.  Againe,  oblerue  thet
o  Chriſt  in  his  manbood  increaſed  in  grace,  asin  age,  and  ſtature,
Luk.z.  And  this  increaſe  was  without  all  imperteRion  :
forio  his
infancy,  Chriltreceiued  a  full  meaſure  ofgrace  fitte  for  that  age  +
whenhe  was  twelue  y  cares  -0id,he  received  a  further  meaſurc,titte
forthat  age  :  and  ſo  when  he  was  thirty  yearesold.  Andthusin-
35  creaſe  of  grace,  andthe  perfeRion  thereof,  (land  bath  together.
And  this.increaſeis  not  onely  in  reſpe  of  experience,and  the  ma-
nife(lation  of  Grace  before  God  and  mengbut  alſoin  reſpet  ofthe
habit  or  gitt  :  though  the  Schoo/es  for  400.  yeares  have  taught  the
PER  lince  the  _  of  —_—_
RED
33
60
etbirdthing
is,
theVniting  of  fieſhto  the
God
oft
Sonne:  and  that  is  done,  Eo
Sonne  of  God  makesthe  fle(k
ormatureof  man,  a
part  ofhimclte  Ms  communicates  vnto  it  his
OWNe
