---
page: 266
pdf_page: 288
sortable_pagination_id: "266"
---
ett,
Chap.4-
274
againk
The  vices  ln  that  the  Ceremonies  of  the  law  ſet  vp
..
Chrilt,in
the  cauſe  of  our  iaſtitication  and  ſaluation,  are  called
im-
potent  and  beggarly  rudiments,  Pax/teacheth  a  weightie  ages  ©"
lion:  That  Chriſt  En  the  workeof  1s  Ne
we  ;
whether
=  deputic,or  ſubſtitute,
RL
out
whole  worke  of  redempon,  rhe  taller
A  that  all  the  workes
of
ſtand  alone  by  them.
ſelues,  and  admit  nothing  to-be  added  and  adioyned  to  ;  tha.
There  is  no  other  nane  whereby  woe can  be  ſaned  beſide  the  name  of
Crit,  eA8.4.12.  Chriſt  ſanes  thew  perfebily  that come onto  bim,  |
Hebrews7.25.  In  biz wet  ave  compleats,Coloſſ.2.10.  Hee  alowe  tread;  ©
:  of  Geds  rrath,  and  none  with  bim)1/a6.  63.3.1  Chrilt  be
Ee
iden
a  RE
ES
an  admirable  worke,not
hut  (heandrickethat  is.bumane-dinme,  For  this  cavſe  no
action
;  I
gy
be  perſormed  er
er  man  or  Ang
.  "Obieftion  1.  Jeb.20,2;,  The  Apolt
worrg  wh)
nfs  To
ad
preaching  and  by  declaring  eundotery
The  Miniſferr  ofthe
ward
doe not  procure
qur  reconciliation  with  God  as  Chriſt  doth,  zo
but  chey  exhort  men  tobe  recotrciled  to  God.  2.Cor.  5.20.
NPR  2."  Per.  34285  vs  wn  wy
therefrenct  Chril
alone.  fs.  Baptilmeſaucth  by  (j
by  fealing  vntov3
ch
and  mercie  of  God  andr
ing  four  letion,
inthe
ſameplaceaſcribed  to  Chriſt  and  bis  we  nb
35
Theconclulion  then  of
Pa«/is  tobe  remembred:  fort  ſerues  as
anengyne  to  ouerturne  the  mainegrounds  of
,  Thepri-
macie
of  the  Popeisa  certen  ellate  in  which  he  is  abllitoted  into
the  place  androome  of  Chrilt  :  for  hee  takes  vpon  him  tomake
lawes  thatproperly  and  truly  binde  conſcience,  even  as  thelawes  40
of  God.  Againe,  be  takes  vnto  him  a  proper  and  iodiciall  power,
fo  remitor  retaine  the  (ines  of  mev.  Now  theſe  afticns  indeed,
arc
