---
page: 245
pdf_page: 267
---
the  Epiſtle  tothe  Galatians.
Chap.  4.
253
theriaall  his  w—
mejitis  nottrue  chat  a  ſinner  is  jultifi-
ed,when  all  ſinne
is  aboliſhed:
valeſſe  ivſtice  be  added.For  iuftifi-
cation
is  analteration  ofa  ſinner  from  one  contrary  t&  another  ,
from  euill  to  good  from  life  to  death\:and  therefore  (inne  molt  de-
5  part,andiultice  comein  the  roome  thereof,  That  a  darke  haulc
may  beialightned,darkenes  mult  firſt  beaboliſhed,
and  Tight  mult
come  inthe  ſtead  thereof.  And  that  aman  may  be  iuſtified,  ſinne
muſl  be  couered,and  righteouſne(ſe  imputed.
The  ſecond  queſtion  is,  bow  the  Sonneof  God  performed
20  this  obedience?
Amw.  He  was  obedientto  his  Father  tothe  death,
and  that  according
to  all  theduties
of  loue  in  the  firlt  cable  ;  &  tor
the  ſecond  cable,be
loved  his  enemicas  himſelfe,  becauſe
he  gaue
bis  life  for  man.  Markethen,  he  did  all  things  contained  in  the
law,  andmoretoo,  in  reſpeR  of  the  duties  of  the  ſecond  Table.
15  For  the  law  binds  ys  to  loue  our  neighbours  as  our  ſelues,  and
'  Pot  more  thenour  ſelues,  This  obedience  therefore  istruly
to  be
tearmed
4  worke  of  /upererogatio:&  there  is  none  inthe  world  belide.
Thevſe.
T  hat  theSonae  of  God  was  conformable  to  thelaw,
it
the  goodneſſe,perfetion,and  excellencie  thereof.  Here  a-
20  gaine  marke  the  difference,  betweene  the  man  Chri(t,and  all  other
*  -  men,  He  wasnot  borteſubie&ttothe  law,but  made  fubiet  :  nor
ſabieRt!
e,botby
willa
ement.  Allo-
cotby  wil,butby  nature,not  made;  but  borne
ther  men  are!
ſubie.T  herefore  Pa»/ſaith,  the  Gentiler
doo  by  nature  the  things  of
25  the  law.  Theremainders  ofthe  Jaw  fince  the  fallare  vaturallio  all
men\:thereforetbe  whole  law  was  naturall  before  the  fall.  Man  was
at  the  belt  created  in  righteouſnes  and  bolines,#p4.4  24.40  ther-
fore  in  a  perfeRtſubiection  and  conformity  tothe  law.  It  is  a  vatv-
rall  propertie  of  a  reaſonable  creature,  todoe  homageto  the  crea-
40  tor.  [t  is  an  errorthen  in  the  papilt  ro  teach,  chat  the  |  mageot  God
in  our  firft  parents  was  ſupernaturall,
The  fourth  point  or  degree  is,  the  Redemptionof  man  from
vnder  the  Jaw  io
theſz  work  [rhe  he  might  redeime  them  which  were
vnder  the  law,  Here  five  things  are  to  beconlidered,  Thehtrelt  is,
35  what  is  meant  by  beeing  vader  the  law?  A»ſer.  The  law  mult  be
coniidered  two  waies:  firlt;asthERule  of  lite,  Thus  angels  are  vn-
derthelaw,  and  Ade»  betore  his  fall,  and  the  Saints  now  in  hea-
ven-  And  none  yeeld  more  ſubieQionto  the  law-theathey  :  and
this  ſubicRion  is  theirlibertie,  Againe  the  Jaw  mult  be  conlide.
40  red  aza  grieuous  yoke  wh'ch  none  can  beare.  I!  isa  yoke  three
waies:  frit,  becau{eitdid  bind  the  Church  of  the  old  Teſtament  ra
the  obſcruation  uf  inany  and  that  very  collly  ceremonies,  forthe
R  4
mail-
