---
page: 247
pdf_page: 269
---
the  Epiiile  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.  4.
255
Thethird  point  is,  whatit  the  price  wherby  men  are  bought  or
redeemed  from  vnder  the  law  ?  Anſwer.  T  he  obedience  of  the  Son,
whereby  he.(tood  in  ſubieGiqn  tothe  Law  for  ys;  as  Paw!  (ignibes
inthe  words  irmediatly  going  before,  It  may  be  ſaid,  how  can  the
;  'obedienceot
one  man;  be  aprice  otfredemption  for  another?  |  an-
ſwer,'  wee  imult.conlider  Chriſt,  notas  a  meereman,  but  as  God-
man;,.and
by  thigmeanes  his  obedience  is  of  infivite  merit  and  ef-
cacie.
Agaive,
we  mult  canlider  him  not  as  aprivate,but  as  a  pub-
like
»  repreſenting  pll  the  ele  in  hisabedicoce  to  his  Fa-
other,  And  bythis  meancs  his  obedience  (crues  forallthat  belecue
\jo  bio,  Againeje  may  beealleadged,thatthe
law  ſaith,  7  bon  ſpa/r
lanexthan  ſaalt  not  luſt,  cc,  And,  the  ſoule  that  ſonnes,  that  faule  ſpall  die,
Exzech.1  8:20,  Andaman  ſpall  net  redeems  the  life  of  bus  brother,P  ſal.
|  49.7-,  Anſwer,  The  law  requires  that  cuery  man  performe  obedi-
1  5  <nce,gnd  make  {atisfactiopin  his  owne  perlpn,  &  thelaw  knowes
no  other  obedience.  But  this  mult  be  conlideced;chat  the  law
is
but  one  part  of  the  reucaled  will  of  God:  atid  that  the  Goſpel  is  an
-t
Jitina  part,  reuealingmorethen'the  law  ever  knew,  And
the  Golpell  teacheth  a  Tranſlation  of  the  law  ia  reſpect  of  obedi-
20  ence,  from  our  perſontotheperionot  the  Mediatgurand  thereby
1,6
tothelaw,-  |
itaddes
an  exception
Thefourth
poiot  is,  whoare  partakers  of  this  redemption  ?  A»/;
They  which  Bae  fcele,  and  bewaile  theircondition  that  they
arevndertbelaw,and  flic  trom  the  ſeatencethereof  tothe  throne
45  Ot
grace  for  mercy.Cbr!/?  cameto  ſame  ſmmer;y
Marth.  9.that  is,  ſuch  as
.areconyiced  by  the  law,and  know  themſelves  to  be  linners,  He
offers  eaſe  10  them that  trawell  and  are  heany  laden,  Mattb.11.28.  Hee
preacheth  delinerance  to  captines,[.uhe  4.18,  Here  wee  areto  bewaile
the  miſery  of  our  people,that  know  not  themſelues  to  be  vader  the
30  law:  nay  they  loue  and  delight  tobevnder  it.  For  they  alleadge  for
theraſelues,  that  they  ſay  Saw  prayers  duely  and  truely,thas  they
meanewellto  God-ward,and  deale  truly  with  men  :  and  theretoze
they  thinke  God  will  baue  mercy  on  them,and  baue  them  exculed
for  all  their  offences,
53
The  laſt  poyatis,  what  benefits  ariſe  of  this  deliyerance  from
vnder  the  law.  Anſwer.,  T  hey  which  turae  ta  God,  and  belecue
io  Chrilt,  reape  foure  benefits  thereby,  [The  bs(t  is,  that  po  ſinne
ſhill  bave  dominion  over  them,  Kowques  6.14,  Hegre'marke  by
the  way,  that  they  which  are  in  Chritt,.  cannot  wholly,  fall,  trom
.  40  ow  For  they  which  wholly  fall  away,  ate  vader  the  dominion
of  linne,
The  ſecond  is,  that  God  will  accept,  the  indeauourtg  any;
——""
