---
page: 27
pdf_page: 49
sortable_pagination_id: "27"
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.1.
37
of  God  ſhould  fall  away  to  ſodamnablea  religion.  4n/wer,  They
neither  loued,nor  obeyed  the  dodtrine  of  1/oſes,and  the  Prophets:
aud  therefore  God  in  iudgementleft  them  to  the  blindeneile  of
their  owne  mindes,and  hardneſfe  of  their  owne  hearts.  //ai.  5.T  he
like  may  beour  caſe.  If  we  loue  and  obey  not  the  Goſpell,  more
thenwe  hauedone,our  religion  may  end  in  ignorance;ſuperltition,
and  prophaneneſle,as  theirs  hath  done.
The  ſecond  thing  in  Paul  example,  is  bis  connerſation,
whereby  heliued  and  conuerſed  accordipg  to  hisreligion.  Thelike
ſhould  bein  vs.  For  the  profeſlion  of  the  faith,  and  gadly  conver.
15
lation  are  to  goe  together,  Phil  1.27.  Faith  in  the  heart  is  alight,
and  workes  are  the  ſhining  of  this  light,  Aſarrh.  5.  16.  Chriſt  bath
redeemed  them  that  belecue  from  thery  14  'ne  conver  (ation,  1,Pet.1.18
Here  many  of  vs  doe  amille,disioyning  faith,  and  good  life,  And
this  fault  is  the  greater,  becauſe  it  is  an  occaſion  to  our  aduerſaries
to  millike,aod  reieR  ourreligion.
Pax:  converſation  hath-twoparts,his  perſecution  of  the  church,
and  his  profiting  in  his  religion.
Perſecution  properly  is  the  affliing  of  the  people  of  God  for
their  faith  andreligion.  Inthis  we  are  not  to  follow  Pas/;but  to
doe  the  contrarie,  that  is,  by  all  meanes  to  ſeeke  the  good  of  the
church.  After  Gods  glory  immediatly,we  are  to  ſeek
the  comming
and  aduancement  of  the  kingdome  of  God.  Now  this  kingdome
is  a  certaine  eſtate  and  condition  of  men,whereby  they  tand  ſub-
ietcothe  word  &  ſpirit  of  God,  AndthisſubietiontoGodand
25
Chrilt,  igthepropertie
of  them  that  bee  members  of  the  Church
of  God.  All,  both  rich  and  pooreconferred  ſome  thing(according
totheir  abilitie)tothe  building  of  the  Temple,  which  hgured  the
Church  of  God.  Thefault  of  our  times  is,that  we  build  our  ſclues,
oe  and  our  worldly  eſtates,  and  little  reſpet  thecommon  yood  of  .
the  Church.
In  the  perſecution  of  the  Church  by  Pax/;two  points  are  to  bee
conlidered,  the  manner  and  meaſure,  or  accompliſhment,  The
manner  is,that  hee  perſecuted  the  Church  extreamely,or
abowe  mea-
35.  /ure.  That  which  Pas/didin  hisreligion  ,  wee  mult  doe  in  ours.
T  he  good  things  that  we  are  to  doe,we  mult  doc  them  with  all  owr
might,Eccleſ.9.10,  Our  duetie  is  to  keepe  our  heartsin  the  feare  of
God,and  we  mult  doeit  with  all  db/rgence,Prov4  24.  It  is  ourduetie
toſceke  Gods  kingdomG,and  we  mult  rzke  it  wich  wielence.
To  enter
46,  )ntolife  is  our  duetic,and  wee  mult  rive  ro  eter,  |  o  prayis  our
duetie,  and  wee  mult  wraftle  in  prayer,  Kom.  15.30.  Teſias  turned  to
God  wicthallhis  heart,  The  law  requires  that  we  thould  loue  G
wit
