---
page: 248
pdf_page: 270
---
Chap.4-
'  A  Commentarie  p08
255
for  obedience,  becauſe  they  are  freed  from  therigourof  thelay,
Reade  Malach.;.17.
"nn
The  third  is,that  they  have  libertieto  live  and  ſerue  God  with.
Luke  1.74.
any  othereuill,
out  feare  of  damnation,or
Thelaſtis,  that  afflitions  ceaſe  to  beecurſes,and  are  turned  to;
bleſſings  :  and  for  this  cauſethey  are  delaied  and  qualified  forthe
ecodefthem  which  ateafflited.  Pſalm.  $9.3  2.  [  wil  correlbihin
that  offend  with  a  roddeybut  I  will  not  take  my  mercie  from  thein,  "Pros
3.11.  Griene  not  forthe  correftion  of  the  Lord:  for  bee  lonethwhew  by
correfeth,  Jerens.  16:14,  Corteft  rin  indgement  1  and  powre  foorth  thy  1
wrath  ypon  the  nation?  that have  not  known  thee.  T  his  muſt  teach  wa
that
orteach  Chriſt,  not  to  be
di
ed  when they  are
abuſed,
railed  on,  laundered,
or  curſed.  For
if  they  bee  from  ys.
der  the  law,  and  from  vnderthe  (ting
of  a  guiltie  cons  a,
thing
ſhall  hurt  them.  They
mult  be  content
for  a  while
thelatedvs  and  biting  ofthe
divell  :  for  inthe  end  hishead
ſhall
bebruiſed  in  vi
in  pieces
To  ende  this  poynt;  it  may  bee  ſaid,  if  we  that  belecye  benot
,vnder  the  law,then  wemay  live  and  doe  as  we  liſt.  An/wer,  Weate
2C
free  from
a8  a
yoke,  but not  freefrom
it,  az  it  isthervleoly
obedience,and  goodlite,
And  becauſeweare
freed  from
the!
dage
of  thelaw,  therefore  wee  muſt  bee  a  law  to  our  ſelues:  wee
mult  bee  voluntaries,  Pſalm.  110.4.  without  conſtraint,  rr  {pr
Ts
ry  om
and  not  for  feare  of  hell,  and
the
laſt
judgement.
-  3:  96S
The  third  and  laſt  degree,  is  the  fruition
of  adoption,  in  the
words  [|  that  wee  might  receinethe  adoptiondf  ſonnes.]  Heere  two
ſtions  are  to  be  con(idered.  The
firſt  is,  How  the  Chorch  of  the
new  Teſtament  is  ſaid  toreceine
the  adoption  which  was  before  ,
30
receiuedin  the  old  Teſtament?  Anſwer.  la  Scripture  a  thingis
often  ſaid  to  bee  done,  when  it  is  done more  fully,and
Chriſt  tells  Nath  ance!  that  bee  ſha'l  ſee  herwon  open,  Tohn  1.5  1.thit
is,  more  plainely  opened.  For  it  was  not  ſhat  in  the  olde  Teſts
ment.  And,  the  holy  Ghoft  was  not  yet,  Tohn  7.39.  that  is,in  the  fullss
35
meaſure.  And,  the  way  into  the  Holieft,  was  not
open  while
the  Tuber-
wnacle  war  bending:  Hebr,  9.8.  that  is,  plainly
made  manifeſt.  And  in
this  place,  beleevers  of  the  New
Teſtament  receive  the  adoption:
becauſe  they  receive  it  in  a  more  full  and  plentifull  manner,  in
that  the  ſpirit
of  children  is  powred  foorth  vpon  them  in  large
meaſure,  whether
wee  regard  INlumination,  or  the  gifts  of  reg
neration.  This  meſtteachvsthatlive  in  theſe  latter  dayes,  toput
———__
——
an  the  condition  of  ſonnes  and  daughters  of  God,  in  Re
bed
