---
page: 249
pdf_page: 271
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.4
237
obedience;  and  thanktulne(ſe.  But  alas,  among  the  multicude,
itis  farre  otherwiſe,  Forthe  molt  live  eveu-as  Atheiſts  in'igno-
rance,  according  to  the  laltes  of  their  owne  bearts,  The  taith
and  repentance,  which  they  profetle,  is  but  ceremoniall  Faith,
5  gndrepentance,
\-  The  ſecondqueſtion  is,wheace
ſprings  our  adoption  ?  Thean-
(wer  isplaine  jo  the  words:  From:  the  obedience  of  the  Sonne,
whereby
he  (tood  iv  ſubieiontothelaw.  Herethe  queltion  of  all
queſtions  is  anſwered;  namely,  what.isthaething,by  which,and
19  cor  whichaliooeri:  iuſtified  before  God,and  ſaved?  Anſwer.  T  he
obedience  of  the  Sonneof  God  qade  man,  and  made  vader  the
kw  forvs.  For  this  is  it  that  frees  vs  from  vader
the  law,and
gives
vstheadoption  of  ſonnes.  And  this  alone  isir,whereby  we  (tand
before  the  tribunall  ſeat  of  God,whichalſo  we  are  to  oppole  tothe
5  iudgement  of  Godto  bell,  death,and  condemaation,
T  herefore  our  common  people  erre,  that  looke  to  bee  laued
by
their  good  deeds;that  is,by  their  good  meaning  2nd  dealing.
Th
thus  tread  the  blood  of  Chriſt  vader  their  owne  feet,  and
beegune
leſyſſes,or  Savioursto  themſelves.
by
20  .  .Secondly,they  erre,that  teach  juſtification  by  the  elfentiall  io-
'  ſlice
of  the  Gadbeadof  the  Sonne:  for  that  itis  incommunicable:
and  they.  which  arc  iullified  by  it,ace  allodeitied,
Thirdly,  the  Papiſt  ecreth,  which  teachech  juſtification  part-
ly  by-remiſlion  of  Ginnes  ,  and  partly  by  that  which  wecall  in-
5  ward  ſanQification:  which  is  imperfet  and  mixed  in  this  lite
with  our.  corruption,  and  therefore  vatic  to  ablolue  andacquit  vs
before  God.
3!
.  It  may  be  ſaid,  what  muſt  we  doetbat
wee  may  bee  juſtified  and
Gaved  by  this  obedience
of  the  Mediatour?  Anſwer.  In  the  olde
30  Teſtament,  when  a  man  had  noed,  he  brought  a  ſheep,or  an  oxe
tothe  doore ofthe
Tabernacle,and
when  the  Prieſt  cut  the  throat
of  it,the  partic  laid  his  band  vpon  the  head  of  it,  Exed.z9.1o.And
bereby  he  (ignified,.that  the  beaſt  had  done  no  burt,  and  that  hee
a8  agailtie  malefactorhad  deſerued  death,  Now  all  this  was  done
35  infigure.  Anditteacheth  vstbat  we  miſerable  fioners  muſt  come
to
God  ;  that  wee  mult  bringour  ſacrifice  with  vs,  namely,the
Lambeof  God,  whichis
the  5anpe  of  God,  mademan;and  made.
vaderthelaw  »  that  wce  uit  preſent  this  Lambe,  and  the  obla-
tion  thereof  to  the  Father  forvs,  laying  ove  bandes  ov  the  head  of
40  it  :  that  is,  confeſſing
our  guiltio«  Na  that  we  hauciulily  deſer-
uedCgeath,and  perdition  trom  the  preſence  of  God.  In  the  lalt.
au{l  iatceat  the  Lord  to  accept  the  blood  of  the  Lambe
place,  we
ve
