---
page: 273
pdf_page: 295
sortable_pagination_id: "273"
---
the  Epistle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.  4
2831
God,  And  it  is  not  ſufficient  now  and  then  to  make  a  diſcourſe  v  p-
on  a  text.  Thirdly,  Miniſters  of  the  word  mult  be  watchmen.
Exch,z.14.and  Heb.r3.17.  Their  office  is  not  onely  togaine  and
call  men  to  God,  but  alſo  to  preſerue  and  keepe  them  in  Chit,
5  which  arealready  called,
Thirdly,here  we  ſee  the  condition  ofthe  Church  of  Galatia,and
of  all  other  vilible  Churches  vpon  earth,  that  they  arc  ſubiectto
Apoſtalie,  It  may  be  ſaid,  how  can  this  be,  con(idering  true  belee-
vers  cannot  fall  away  ?  A»{.ln  thevilible  Church  on  earth;there  are
19  foure  kinds  of  beleeuers,  The  firſt  are  they  which  hearethe  word
without  zeale,and  they  are  like  the  [tony  ground.  The  ſecond  are
they,  which  heare,  know,  and  approoue  the  word.  Thethird  arc
PS  heare;know,and
ethe  word,  and  haue  a  taſte
ofthe  power  thereof,and  <_
yeeld  ſome  outward  obedi-
15ence,
I  he  fourth  arechey,which  heare;know,  approoue,and  keepe
the  word,inthat  they  belecueit,andare  turned  into  the  obedience
of  it.  The  three  firſt  may  fallquite  away  ,the  fourth  cannot.
And  by
this  meanes  it  comesto
palle,  that  vilible  Churches  vpon  earth
may  fall  away  :  becauſe  ofthem  that  profeile  the  faith,threeto  one
20  may  vtcerly  fall  away.
Thevie.  This  mult  teach  vs  that  are  members  of  the  vilible
Church,to  feare  and  to  {ulpeR  our  (elues  :  and  not  tocontent  our
ſelues,becauſe  we  haue  ſome  good  things  in  vs:  but  we  muſt  labour
to  be
ſealed  vp  to  the  day  of  onr  redemption,end  tolay  vp  4  good  found.tt10n
25  4onf  the  time  to  come.  1,7im.G.1y.  By  ſeeking  to  baue  in  vs  ſuch
good
things,as  are  proper  tothe  Ele,  as  vatained  faith  ig  Chriſt,
and  conuer(ion  to  Gad  from  all  our  (innes.
It  may  be  demanded,how  Pax;  labour  ſhould  be  in  vaine  ?  Avf.
It  was
in  vaineinreſpeR  of  his  ownedelire  and  atteion  to  ſaucall
the  Galatians  :  ſecondly,it  wasin  vainezia  reſpe&t  of  the  whole  bo-
dy  of  that  Church,  whereof  many  were  hypocrites.  It  was  not
in  vaine  in  reſpe&  of  the  ele,  nor  in  reſpeR  ofthe  counlell  of
God,1/a.5  5.11,
Apgaine,it  may  be  demanded,  what  muſt  be  done  when  the  la-
of  our  calliogs  arc  in  vaine  ?  Anſ.  We  mult  follow  the  cal-
35  bours
ling  and  commandement  of  Gad,whether  we  have  good  fuccetle
orno,and  whatſoever  come  of  it.  Pal  feares  lealt  his  labour  is  in
vaine,and  yet  be  ſtill  labours.  When  Peter  had  laboured  all  vight
and  caught  nothing;he  faith,  at  the  commaundement  of  Chrilt,
4*  In  thy  word  will  I  caſt  out  my  net,  Lick,  5.  And  thus  to  doe,  (what-
ſocuer  followes  )istrue  wiſedome,  and  the  ftearc  of  God,  For  it
mult  ſuffice  vs,  that  the  worke  wetake  in  hand  is  plealing  _
T  z
10
