---
page: 274
pdf_page: 296
sortable_pagination_id: "274"
---
A  Commentarie  pon
Chap.  4.
282
(od,  And  thovgh  it  bee  in  vaing,in  reſpeRof  men,  it  isnot  fo
before  God,  [ſas.  49.  4.  and  2.  Corinth.  2.18,  This  mult  every  man
remember  in  his  placeandcalling-for  the  eſtabliſhing  of  his  mind
againſt  alleveors,
12  Bee  you  4:  1,  for  1  ameucn  as  you:  1  beſerch  you  bre-
thren  :  ye  haue  not  hurt  me  at  all.
T  he  words  inthisverſe,tothe  15.verſe,  are  ananfwerto  an  ob-
ieion,  T  he  obieion  is  this,  wee  ſee  now  by  theſe  reproofes,  that  10
Paul  bath  changed  his  minde  toward  vs,and  that  hee  hath  turned
his  loue  into  hatred.  Theanſweris,Be  as  [,/  am  as
you:  the  ſpeechis
very  effecuall  and  ligniticant;and  it  is  like  thecommon  prouerbe,
Amicus  alter
ego,alter  idem,  that  is,q  mansjriend  is  all  owe  with  bumelfe,
The  ſenſe  of  he  wordsis,He  as  1:  looke  that  your  minds  benote-  1;
ſtranged  from  me,  but  tender  meeuen  as  your  owne  ſtlues  :  for  |
1  aul  arathe  ſame  that  ever  |  was,  |
reſpect  andrenderyonecuen  as
mine  owne  felfe.  And  leſt  the  Galatians  ſhoold  ſay  ,ſee
ye  not  how
Pax!  commands  imperioully,  bee  yee  as  ]  ?  therefore  he  addes,  [b+-
{cech  you  brethren,  |  command  younot.  Inthe  next  words  he  addes  ©
a  reaſon  of  his  anſ«er,thus:  Hatred  preſuppoſerh  a  hurt
or  wroog
to  be  done:  yehaue  done
me  no  hurt  or  wrong  :  therefore
ye  may
not  thinke  that  I  hate  you,
When  Pa  faith,  Be  4s,  I  am  ar  you:  we  learne,  that  there  mult
bee  a  ſpeciall  and  mutuall  love  betweene  the  teachers
and  thepev-  14
ple-  /a»/faith,thathe  diden/arge  bis  beart  for  the  Corimthians,  and  he
requiresthelike  of  them,2.Cer,6.1  1,13,  Teachers  muſtſhewtheir
loue,  by  tendering  theſaluation  of  the  people  by  all  meanes,cucn
as  their  owne  ſoules.  Paul  could  bave  found  in  his  heart  to  have
beene  accurled  for  his  countreymen  the  lewes,Kom.9.1.  Heedeli-  30
red  that  he  might  be  offered  vp  as  a  drinke  offering  vpon  the  ſacri-
hce  of  the  faith  of  the  Philippians,  Phip.2.1  8.  When  the  |
frae-
lites  bad  finved,17o/es  ſtands  in  the  breach,as  it  werein  the  faceof
the  Cannon,  betweenethe  wrath  of  God  and  them,  by  his  prayer
tolay  the  judgement  of  God,P/alm,  105.23.  Againe,  the  people  ;  5
mult  ſhewtheirloueto  their  teachers;  firlt,by  prayiog  for  them,  as
for  themſelues,Rem.15.30,  Secondly,by  having  in  {1ogular  _
the  workeof  the  minilterie,2  .7beſſ.5.  13.  and  thatis,  by  wholfome
doQrine  to  repaire  the  image  of  God,and  to  eretthe
kingdom  of
God  in  the  hearts  of  men,  When  thisthing  is  loued  &  deſired,then  40
are  Minilters  loued,  This  mutual  loueis  of  great  vſe,itincoorageth
people  toobey,S&the  preachers  ofthe  word  tolabourin  Rn
Vacn.
