---
page: 253
pdf_page: 275
---
the  Epiitle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.  4.
261
This  is  the  praQicall  Syllogiſme
of  the  Holy  Gholl.It  is  the
fimonie  {rcp  Aut2mie  bene  Arr  wi
neſt  of  the  Spirit,  and  the  ſcale  whereby  wee  are  ſealed  tothe  day
of  ourredemption:  and  it  cootaines  the  certaintie  of  ſpeciallfaith.
The  fourth  thing  thatfollowes  vpon  this  teſtimonie,  is  peace
'  of
conſcience  ,  ioy  and  afthaocein  God:  And  from  thisathance
comes  the  crying  heere  mentioned,  whereby  every  true  belecuer
with  open  throat  (as  it  were)cnes  vato  God  the  Father.  This  do-
Arincis  of  great  worth,it  isthe  hinge  vpon  which  the  gate  of  hea-
1g  yen  turnes:  andthereforeto  be  remembred.
T  he  vis.
By  thiswe  ſte  a  manitel}  errour  io  the  Popiſh  religion,
which  teacbetb,that  wecan  haue  no  other  certaintie
of  our  {alua-
tion  inthis  lite,  but  that  which  is  probableor  conieQurall,  thats,
a  certaintie  ioyned  with  feare,  (uſpition,and  ſome  doubting.  Cer-
1;  faintiein  reſpeR  of  God  that  promiſeth+  feare  and  doubting,in  re-
"  ſpec  of  our  owne  indiſpolition,  Butthis  doArine  is  falſe.  Forthey
which  are  Gods  children,receiue  the  ſpirit,  crying,
Abba:  and
this  crying  argues  afhance  or  confidence  in  God.  By  faith  wee
have  confidence  in  God,and  entrance  with  boldnefle,Fpheſ.3.1  .
20  and  boldnes  is  oppolite  to  feare,  and  excludes  doubting  inreſpeR
of  our(clues,.
Againzby  this  doQrrine  we  fee  it  is  ordinary  &  pollible  forall  that
belecue  &  repent,to  be  certaialy  a(lured  that  they  arethechildren
of  God,  For  why  anguadngey  coy
ofGod  crying  in  them(as  al  Gods
25  Children  haue)  they  cannot
but  perceive  this  crie,and  withall  they
hauethe  teſtimony  ofthe  ſpiritia  themywhich  is  thegroid  of  this
crie,Rew.$.15,  And  ſeeing  this  is  ſo,  we  mull  be  admoniſhed  tovie
all  means  that  we  may  be  a{lured  that  we  are  the  children  of  God,
2.Pet.1.  Gine  all  diligence  to  make  your  elettionſwre.  Pant  bids  rich  men
30  vp  4  good  forndutron
againſt
the  time  to  come;  1,Tim,G.18,  And  this
foundation  mult  belaid,not
in  heauen,but  inthe  conſcience  God
of  bis  mercy  hath  made  a  coucnant  or  bargain  with  vsthat  beleeue
and  repent  \:inthis  bargaine  he  hath  promiſed  to  vs  pardon
of  ous
linnes,&  life  everlaſtiog:
let  vs  then  never  beat  reſt;till  we  havere-
£3  ceived  earneſt  from  ekead  of  God,&  haue  his  promiſe  ſealed  vn-
tovsby  the  ſpirit  io  our  hearts,  You  wil  ſay,what  ſhall  doto  be  aſ-
ſuredthat
|  am  Gods  child?  1»,  hou  molt  examine  thy  ſelfe  of
two  things,  The  firſt  is,  whetker  thou  art  convicted  in  thy  judges.
ment,that
the
Scriptureis  indeed  the  word  of  God:  ifthou  art  not:
49  yet
convicted,  then  enquire  &  vie  meanes  that  thou  maielt  indeed
be  convicted:  otherwile
all  is  in  vaine.  Secondly,inquire  whether:
thou  doſtigdecd  and  in  good  earne(t,  ſubmit  and  ſubie@  thy.wilL
9,
.'
