---
page: 255
pdf_page: 277
---
E  *
the  Epiftle  tothe  Galatians.
Chap.  265.
fore  he  had  vitered  his  delirehe  is  received  to  mereyiZuke  29.2  1.
The  ſecond  example  is  a  deſire  of  Gods  preſenceandþrotedtion
in  common  iudgements.  \Vhen Aoſes  [tood  at  the  red  feain  great
ng  Raeng  the
ſea  before  him,  and  P  havaobs  chariots
betnade
bim,no  doubt  belifted  vp  his  heart  vuro  God;  but  wereadenor
of
5  anything  that  heſaid;and  yer  the  Lord  faichi97epitri)Pybonrumee?
Exod.14.45.,  When  lchboſaphat  —  reaſon
of
thearmy
of  the  Ammonites,  confoundedibhimſcife;beefaith,0
Lord,
we  know  not  what  to  dor,but  our  rye:  are  towards  theeyz,  Chrono.
i  72.and
heobtained  deliverance.o
21000000,
Thevle.
By  this  welearnetolay  a(id®  formall  praying;
and  lip
labour,  and  learnetolitt
vp  our  hearts  to  God  in  heavenly  (ighs
and  delires:  for  thativindeedeco  pray;  Itis  thevery
firltthing  that
the  childeaf
God  doeth,  inwardlyto  ligh-and
delire  seconcilia-
tion  with  God  in  Chriſt  ;  and  hee  which  cannot  doe  this,is  not  as
15
borge  of  Gad,:1  :-
1  91
1539]
0215
Againe,  many  are  caſt  downe  in  themſeloes,becauſe  they  ſec
their  minds  fullof  ignorance,their  wils  ful  otrebellion,and  ſubict
to  many  t
ions,and  they  hndelittle  goodnes  in  themſclues,
yo  butthey  mult
be  comforted
by  this:  itebey  can  but  groane  &  ligh
voto  God  intheir
hearts  for  mercy  andforgiueneltlczthey
have  t
ſpirit  of  God  crying  ja;thern,  Ab44zandthey hanereceiued  the  ficlt
tsof  the  ſpirit.”  The  deſiresand  criesof,cur  hearts  arefruits  of
theinterceſſion,or  —
ofGodin  heauentor  1  -
thers
are
gricued,
they
baue
prayedlong,
and
t&
us,  ©
ponyfar]  5  of  their  ——
if
eheey  c—————
gin  their  hearts
tar  grace  and  mercy,let
them  be  con-
gevit  :  for  ics  the  fpirit  of  grace  and  praics,  that  makesthem  (igh
andgroane,  And  cuery  ligh  of  a  contrite  heart,  bath  aloudecrie
go  inthe  cares  of
"Tefallsouroften,that  men  inextremitie  of  danger  confounded
in  themnſelues,know  not  what  in  the  world  to  ſay,or  doe.  Ezechias
in  his  (ickenelle  could  not  ſay  any  thing,  butchatterin  his  chroat,
and  mournelike  a  douc,/ſa.  38.14.  Some  lievadertheſword  ofthe
63  enemie,  others  in  a  tempelt  are  ca(t  over  ſhipboard  into  the  fea.
Now  thismuſt  be  their  comfort,
ifthey  can  life  vp  their  hearts  vate
CE  they  can  but  ligh  aod  groane  tor  his  preſence  &  aſliltance,
the  Lord  willheare  the  petition  of  their  hearts:  forthe  ioward
{obagroancs,and  (ighs  of  repentantſioners,  -  arc  loud  aod  (troog
40  cries  inthe  cares
of  God  the  Father.
Thethird  point  is,  Thatthe  crie  of  theſpirit  is  direed  toGod,
becauſe  «
makes  27  crie,  Abba,Father.  Here  furlt  obſerve,  that  prayer
tQ
