---
page: 278
pdf_page: 300
sortable_pagination_id: "278"
---
Chap.  4-
4  Commentarie
jon
2836
vs;that  wemay  beable  to  bearethetrialls  of  God,  and  ſhew  forth
lorge  meaſure  of  faich,patience,obedience.
Thefirlt  ligne  of  Reverence  ip  the  Galatians  is,  th:  rbey  did  ner
deſpiſe  Parilin  bis  baſe  condition.  T  hisis  a  matter  of  commendati.
on  in  them,anditis  co  be  followed  ofvs.  And  heis  a  bleiſed  man  $
that  is  not  offended  at  Chriſt,  Afarb.11.6,
The  ſecond  ligne  of  reverence  is;that  they  receined  Pant  as  an  An.
gel  of  God,  or  as  Chriſt  [eſms  Here  firlt  we  mull  diſtiogutſh  betweere
Pax(s  pztlon,and  his  doarine  or  miniſtery.  And  heisfaid  to  be  recei-
wed  45  an  Auget,or  as  Chriſt  :  becauſe  his  doctrine
was  received
even  0
as  ifan  Angel,or  Ghrill  had  delivered
it.  Secondly  we  muſt  put  a
diffcrence  betweenean  Apoltle,and  all  ordinary  Paltours  and  tea-
chers.And  to  be  rec\:iued  as  an  Angel,  or  as  Chrilt,  properly  and
ſimply  concerns  Pawhand  there(t  of  the  Apoſtles.  Forto.chem  it
was  ſaid,/#  is  not  you  that  ſpeaks,  but  the  ſpirit  of  the  Father  m  you  Mat.  '5
10.20  Againe
fe  tht  bearath  you  beureth  me be  that  deſpiſeth  yougde-
ſpiſeth  me,  Lxk.40.45\:T  he  Apollles  werecalted  of  God  immediatly,
taught  and  in{pired  immediatly,and  immediatly  gouerned  by  the
Spirits  bath  in
preachiog  and
writing,
ſo  as  they  could  noterrein
the  things  which  they  ===  Church:  aod
thereforethey  *?
were  to  be  beardeven  as  Chriſt  bimlclfe,
As  for  ather  ordinary  teachers;they  are  in  part  andin  the  fecond
placeto
be  hearg|  as  Apgels,  and
as  Chriſt,  ſo  tarre  forth
as
tollow  the  dorine  ofthe  Apoſtles,  Thus  are  they  allo  called
Angels  of  the  covenant;  Iglac.2.7,  And  Embaſſ..dours  in  the  flead  of  *5
Chriſha.Cer,s.21.
Here  Paul  notably  expreiſeth  the  Authority,  and  Honour
of  an
Apoſtle,  which  is  to  be  heard  even  as  Chrilt  himſelfe  :  becauſe
in  preaching  he  is  themouth,and  in  writiog  tbe  hand  of  God.
his
authority  is  to  bemaintained  :  and  the  con(ideration  of  it  is  of  ?
great  vie.  The  Papills  ay,we  know  the  (cripture  to  be  the  word
of  Godby  the  teſtimony  of  the  Church
:  Ione
pall  meanes  whereby  wee  arealſured  touching  the  truth  of  Scrip-
ture,is,  that  the  books  of  Scripture  were  penned  by  men,  whole
writings,andſayings,we  are  to  receive,  euen  as  from  Chriſt  him-  3
{ce,becauſe  they
had  either  Propheticali  or  Apoſtolicall  authori-
ty,  and  were  immediatly  taught  and  inſpired  in  writing  \:and  all
this  may  bedilſcerned,by  the  matter,borme,  and  circumitances  of
the  forelaid  books,
Secondly,  they  are  to  be  blamed  that  callthe  Pope  rhe  ſpouſe  of  Þ
NeconGd.  a4  ,
the  Church,  and  Chriſt  by  annoitment(as  Bernard  did,  )tor  thus  is  be
Engen,
more  then  an  Apolltle,
