---
page: 28
pdf_page: 50
sortable_pagination_id: "28"
---
A  Commentarie  p08
Chap.1-
with  all  the  powers  of  body  and  ſoule,  and  with  all  the  ſtrength
of  all  the  powers.  ln  earthly  things  we  mult  moderate  our  thoughts
and  cares,  but  fſpirituall  duties  mult  bee  performed  with  all
The  accompliſhment  of  perſecution,  is,  that  Paw/  waſted  the  5
Church,and  made  hauocke  of  it,  Here  |  tonlider  two  points,wbar
75  waſted  ?  and  who  x  the  waſter  ?  Forthe  fr(t,ic  isthe  church,  Here
two  queſtions  may  be  demanded,  the  fir(t  is,  how  the  church  can
be  walted  ?  Anſwer.1n  reſpeR
of  the  inward  eſtate  thereof,  which
PETE...
ſtandes  ineleRion,faith,  juſtification,  gloritication,  it  cannot  be  ,,
waſted.lo  reſpeR  of  his  outward  eltatezit  may  be  waſted;that  is  in
reſpe  of  mens  bodies,apd  infegardofthe
publike  a(lemblies,and
the  exerciſes  of  religion.  Theſecond  queltion  is-why  God  ſuffers
his  enemies  to  waſte  his  owne  church  ?  An/aer.  ludgement  begins
in  Gods  houſe:  and  his  iudgements  ſometime  are  very  _  5
whether  they  bein  flicted  fortriall  or  corretion  of  ins  palt,  orfor
the  preveating  of  ſinnesto  come.  As  in  the  body,ſometime  there
is  no  hope  of  life,except  armes,and  legges  be  cut  off:  evenſo  is  it
in  the  church.  Hence  it
that  there  ſhall  be  a  laſt  iudge-
ment,  and  that  there  is  a  life  everlaſting  in  heaven  :  becauſethe
25
minha  man  floriſheth  in  this  world,  and  the  godly  are  often
oppretled.
waſterof  the  church  is  Pal.  By  whom  welearne  that  ſinne
Mir  he
where  it  takes  place,givesa  man  norelt  till  it  hath  brought  him  to
a  height  of  wickedneile.  Hatred  bauing  entred  into  Cains  heart,  15
leaves  him  not,  tillit  have  cauſed  him  to  imbrue  his  hands  in  his
brothers  blood.  Couctouſnetſe
makes  /#darat  lenghe  to  betray  his
malter,and  hang  himſelte.  Blindzeale  makes  P  aw/not  onely  to  per-
ſecute,but  alſo  to  walt  the  church,  Therefore  it  is  good  to  auoide
the  firſt  beginnings,
yea  the  very  occaſion  oflinne.
40
T  helecond  part,and  point  in  Pas/s  conuerlion,  is,that  he  profits
in  his  celigion,  Thus  ſhould  we  profit  ivthe  Goſpell  of  Chrilt,  1t  is
Gud:  commandementybe  yee  perfett  xs  your  beavenly  Fatber  11  perfett:
4s.
tht  is,indeauourto  come  to  perteftion,  Allthe  faith  we  have  or
can  obtaineis  little  enoughin  the  time  of  temptation.  /ob  that  ſaid  ;  5
io  his  affliction,cbowgh  the  Lord  kill
me  1  will  fill  truſt  tn  him,  laith  alſo
that  God  wrote  bitter  things  againſt
bim  and  made  him  to  poſſeſſe  the  ſi-n's
of  his  youth,  It\:is  a  token  tbat  amanis  deadin  his  (ſinnes,  when  be
doth  not  grow,ot  increaſein  good.  1,  Per.2.2,  In  this  regard  great
is  the  fault
of  our  daies,for  many  are  weary  of  the  Goſpell,  many  49:
{tand  at  aſtay  without  profiting  zgmany  goe  backward,  The
is  this.  Commonly  menliue  as  it  were  without  the  law  :  andchinke
it
