---
page: 280
pdf_page: 302
sortable_pagination_id: "280"
---
Chap.4-
A  Commentarie
pon
283
The  TRlegheny  therfore  have  erred;that  place
our  happineſſe
in  honovrs,riches,pleaſures,or  in  civill  vertue.
Secondy,our  common  peopleare  deceiued,who  think  becauſe
they  deale  truly  and  iultly
men,  that  they  are  in  as  good  a
caſe  as  they  that  heare  all  the  Sermons  in  the  world\:as  though  true  ,  |  *
bappinetle  ſtood  in  civill  converſation.
T  birdly,  this  doQtrine  ſeraes  to  beate  downea  polnt  of  natural
Atheiſmein  the  heart  of  man,  which makes  many  thioke  ita  vaine
thing  toſerue  God,  and  to  heare  his  word,/ob  21.  15.  Malace3,14.
Dauid  wastroubled  with  this  corruption,
P/alme  73.15.  Many
of  |  .
them  which  profelſe  thename  of  Chriſt,  will  not  bee
fo
kcepethe  Sabbath  day  :  and  in  their  dealings  they  vſe  fraud,  and
lying  as  other  mendoe\:andallis  becauſe  they  thiake  they  cannot
lige  by  theirxeligion.
Fourthly,the  onely  way
to  eſtabliſh  a  kingdome  or  comman.  *
wealth,  isto  plant  the  Golpellthere:  for  this  makes  an  happypeo  5
ple.  Andthis  is  the  mainecauſe  of  our  happinelle  and  ſuccelle  in
this  Church  and  land,  Andthe  obedience  of  the  Gv(pelit  is
that
makes  euery  man  in  his  trade,office,and  calling  whatſoeuer  itbe,
to  proſper.  Reade  Pſal.1.3.
"4b
Fiftly,on  the  contrary,they  are  wretched  and  miſerable  thatliue
without
the  Goſpel,  Prow-29.18,  2.Cor.4
3.  2.7m.  3.7.
Sixtly,toreceiue  the  dactfine  of  the
Apoltles,  is  an  infallible
macke  ofthe  Church  ofGod.  For  this  is  it  that  makes  apeople
Seuentbly,we  may  not  deſpiſe  the  preaching  of  the  word,r.Theſ.
5.20.  If  wedoe,
we  deſpiſe  ourowne  happineſle.  If  it  be  ſaid,Prea-
chers  ſormetimearedeceiued.  Anſwer.  Marke  the  addition  of  Pax,
Prooue
all  things  hold  that  which  is
good,  2,  Theſſ.  5.
Touching  the  {peciall  loue
of  the  Galatians  to  Pa/,  firſt  it  may  10
be  demanded,what  was  thecauſe
of  it?  Anſwer.  The  very  mini-
ſterie  of  the  Apoltle,  whoſe  officeit  was  to  make  diſciples,  Math.
28.19.  and  ſotoplant  the  Church  of  the  New  Teſtament.  And
tor  this  cauſe,  bee  had  a  priuiledge  to  preach  the  trueth,  ſoas  hee
could  not  erreinthings  which  he  delivered  to  the  Church.  Second-
;5
ly,be  preached  with  authoritie,  as  bauing
power  to  corre  rebelli-
ous  offenders,2.Cor.10.6.  and  1,Cor.4,  I
hirdly,he  preached  with
vaſpeakeable  diligence.  Reade  A  20.31.  Fourthly,he  had  a  pre-
rogatiue,(as  thereſt  of  the  Apoſtles  had)  after  hee  had  made  diſci-
ples,by  impoſition  of  hands  togiue  vatothem  the  extraordinary  49
gifts  of  the  boly  Ghoſt,  A:  $.17.And  theſgare  the  meancs  wher-
by  this  ſpeciall  loue  was  procured,
Secondly,
