---
page: 281
pdf_page: 303
sortable_pagination_id: "281"
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians,
Chap.
4.
289
Secondly,  it  may  hee  dewannded,  whether  the  Galatians  did
not  marethen  keepe  the  law,when  thy  would  have  plucked  out
theic  0wne  eye20d  heve  giuenthernto'Parl?  for  thus  they  love:
him  moretben  theieowne  felues.  Anſwer,  The  commandement
5  [Thou  ſhalt  lone  thy  neighbour  as  thy  ſelfe?}  Eoth  not  preſcribe  that  we
mult  in  the  fir(t  place  loucour  (clues,  and  then  in  the  ſecond  love
our  neighbour  ;  butit  ſets  dow  netheright  manner  of  loving  our
neighbour,
and  that  is;to  loue  hum,  as  heartily  and  vefainedly,
as
our  owneſelugs,
19,
The  meaſuregt  loueis  exprefſed  when  Chriſt  faith,we  mf  love
ane  an0ther
,as  {,  braft  laned  15,  {obn  13.34.
wee  muſt  conſider  our  neigh-
There  is  a  cerjaine  cafe  in  which
bour,
not  englyavencighbour,
but  allo  as  aſpeciall  inſtrument  of
God:  and  thuts  are wee  in
|  reſpeAsitro  loue,  and  to  preferre
15  him  befare  qur
«  Thusa  ſubie&  is  moreto  loue  thelife  of
his  Prince,then
his  owne  life.  Thus  Pax/was  content  to  bee  ac-
curled  forthe  l{rablices;Rew.g.1,
And  the  Galatians  would  have
given  None  to\:P  aw;  that  was  ſo  worthy  an  inftrament  of  the
grace
of
,  Teva  cyg  weare  taught  tobe  wlliog  to  forſake  the  dea-
things  in  the  world  tor the  Goſpel
of  Chiilt,  even  our  eyes,
hands,feete,yea
and  our  lite.
wel
os
(2  1661
Ferſe
16.
|  Beaanſel  teftyan
the  trneth.)}  We  mult  after  P  aw:  example  ſpeake
If  thetruth  to  all  men,  Fphe(.4.2  5.  Am»  |
therefore  your  enemy]the
con-
clubon  ofthe  Apoltles  argument,  Here  welee  a  corruption  of  na-
ture,  which  makes  vs  that  wee  cannot  abide  to  heare  the  tructh  in
thingathat\areagainitvs.  Wee  hatethem  that  ſpeakethetrueth  :
ſelfe-love  makes  vsconceine
the  belt  thibgsof  our  ſelues.  Heere
3*  then  learne.
1,  To  ſearch  thy  beart  and  lite;that  thou  mayeſt  know  the  ve-
ry  worſt
by  thy  ſelfe  :  If  thou  wilt  not  know  it  now,
thou  ſhale
knowit
to  thy  hame  in  the  day  of  judgement:
2,  Be  vileandbaſeintbineowne  opinion,  /eb,  3  4.laſt.
35
ly  They  areiealous  oner  you  amiſſe  :  yeaghey  weld  exclude
Joughat  ye  (bould  altogether  loue  them.
18  But  it  i  good  to  loue  earneſtly  atwayes  in  4  good  cauſe;
a  and  na  onely
when  1  am  preſent  withyou.
Thewordzealeghathwany  ligaifications,  beere  it  is  ficlytran-
llatedicalgulic.  Te  arc  icalow]  bereby  much  is  lignitied;  thatthere
is
