---
page: 261
pdf_page: 283
---
the  Epiftle
to  the  Galitians.
Chap.  4.
A  God  that  will  bee  appeaſed  by  bumane  fatiſ-
faRions,and
at  whoſe  hands  a
(innefull  man may  meriteuerlaſting
life,that  is  to  ſay,a  Godallof  mercy,and  little  or  noiuſtice.
Though  our  religion  teach  no  [dolatrie,  yet  certaine  it  is,  that
fF
e  mavyamong  vspratile  a  ſpirituall  idolatrie  in  their  hearts.  For
looke  what  a  man  loves  molt,  and  cares  molt  for  ,  and  delights
moiFinthatiohis
therefore  hevetbeirriches  for  their
God, ſome
7  ann  ſome  their  beallly luſtes,  For  where
the  heartis;there
isthy  God.  Agaioe,theignorant  multitude  wor-
*  6  ſhip  a  Godoftheir  owne  coyning,  which  is  a  God  madeall  of
mer-_
'*
cic,  and  noiuſtice,  For  they  perſwade  themſelves,  that  there  is
mercie
with  God,  though  they
t  not,  but  goeovin
their
ſinges:  whereas  the  true  God  isinfini
onely  in  mercie,  but
alſo  in  ioltice,
Exed.  34.
BY  That  this  Gone
ot  Idolatrie
may  berooted
out  of  the  minds  of
menthere
mult  befirſt  an  /{xnxxation  of  the  mind,  with  the  koow-
of  thetrue  God  and  his  will  :  and  there  mult  alſo  be  arenoue-
tion  of  the  heart  and  affe  ions,  that  they  ſetnotyp  ſomething  elſe
in  the  roome
of  God.
to
Theeltateof  the  Galatians  after  their  converſion  is  in  theſe
words,
Ye  kyow  Godzer  rather  are  knowen
of  God.
The  know
wherby  men  know  God,  is  cither  /terall  bnow-
<  inChriſt,for  in  him  God  hath  maniteſted  his  infinite  wiſdome,  iu»
.  Therefore  is  he  called
the  ingraven  image  of  the  perſon
of
the  Father  ,Heb.1.2.  and  Paul  faith,that  we  bane  be  knowledge  of  the
glory  of  Ged
gn  the  face  of
leſus  Chriſt.2  Cor.  3.6,
$3
Thepropertiesof  thisknowledgearethree.  Thetfirſt  is,thatit
mull  be  a  ſpeciall  knowledge,whereby  wemult  acknowledge  God
to  beour  Godin  Chriſt,  1  he  firit  commandementof  thelawre-
quires,that  wetakethe  true  God  for our  God.  The  comandement
of  Chriſt  is;Beleexe  the  Goſpe).Now  the  llipulation  of  the  couenant
40  of
grace(whichalſo  is  the  fubſtance
of  the  Goſpel)  is  this,  /  «ms  cy
\ler.31.33.  thistheretore  mult  we  belecue.  And  tothis  know-
eis  the  promiſe  of  life  euerlaſtiog  annexed,  lob,17,3.1/8.5  34  "
9  4
