---
page: 263
pdf_page: 285
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galathians.
271
iuſtice,and  with  feare
and  trembling  to  bumble  our  ſeluesfot
our
ſinties  palt;therby  to  prevent  his  angertocome.  T  begarthabruie
and  dumbe  creature  in  his  kind,is  become  a  preacher  vntovs:  and
his  trembling  mult  teach  vs  to  tremble  in  our  hearts,and  to  ſiune
5  nomore,
'  Againe,  if  wee  muſt  know  God,  weemwull  remember  God,  and
Chrilt:  and  as  wee  muſt  know  God;ſo  mull  wee  remember  him.
Now  wemult  £41)  AAA  Chrilt  acoordingto  the  fleſh  2.Cor:5.17,
4nd  therfore  we  may  not  remember  Chrilt  according  tothe  fleth,
19  thatis,in  any  wor  ond  carnall  maner.  Thisthereforeis  notto:
keepe  a  memory  of
Chriſt,toſpend  twelve  daicsin  revell  and  rioe,
in  maskiog
and
mumming,
in  carding  and;fdicing
(as  many  doe:}
thisis  rather  to  burie  the  memagie  of  Chill,  and
eo  doe
oe
tothe  god
of  pleaſure,  Of,  them  that  ſaid,  Zet  vr  rate,  drinks,  and
15  lleepe,P
an  faith  thus:  Awake  and  doe  righteonſly  :  for  ſome  of  you
ds  noc
hnow
God  1.Cor  45.34
Paw(aith  further,  nt  rather  ye  are  knownegf  God,  The  knowl
whergag  Cor  knowes  men,(tands  in  twe  things  z  his  eleQionof)
ther
tqhi
his
ſpeciall
loue,  2.72.  1.19,  angdebe  execution
of  cle  Ri-:
20.00,  wherby  bemakes  men  his  peculiar  people,by  calliog,iullifying
andſanQifying  of  them,  Tus  2.14.
Sn  35
"  Hebce  obfere;
firſt,  that  Gods  EleRtion)ia  the  rogt  of  all  the.
ifts  of  God
in  vs,  Wee  know  God;  becauſe
bee  firlt!  kaowesvs.
as  {aith,  that  wee  wery  elec}ed,  that  nyeangindes  bely,  Epbeſi:1.
4.
25  Therefore
wee  are  not  eleRed(as
ome  teach)  either  for our  faith,
or  according  to  our  faith,  but
to  our  faith,  thatis,  elected  thatwee
might  belecue.
Sant
Secondyy  hence
weleungtbes  weecan  neithertbipke,
ill.  or-.
dothat  whichis
good,vole{ſeGod  prevept  vs  with  his  grace,  God
vs  ,  before  werndnacknowledg
30  mull  firſt  youcblafero  acknowledg
him,  Jobs  10.14,  Preventing  graceis  twofold.  T  he  firlhandthe  (e-
cond.  The  firſt,  hen  Godia  our  firſt  conuctlion  takes  away  the
ſtony  beart,and  puts
a  fleſhy  beart  inthe  rgome.  .T  be  ſecond  is,at-
ter  we  are  regenerate:  for  then  God  ſtil  prevents  vs  with  good  mo-
35  tionsand  delires.  Of  botb,reade  Ex-cb.36,25,  Some  teachthat  if
we  doe  that  which  wee  can,  God  will  giyevs-his  grace:  butthisis
falſe  :  for  then  we  ſhould  prevent  God.
T  hirdly,by  this  we  (ex,thatthe  workes  of  gracein  God  imprint
their  image  inthe  bearts  of  them.that  belong  to  God.  And  this
49  is  worth  the  marking.  T  heres  a  kaowledgers  God  whereby  hee
knowes  who  are  his  ;  and  this  knowledge  brings  foorth  another
knowledgein  vs,  whereby  wee  kaow  God  for  our  God,  There  is
an:
