---
page: 286
pdf_page: 308
sortable_pagination_id: "286"
---
A  Commentaric  pon
Chap.e
294
bis  molt  tender  and  motherly
mother,  and  hee  ſignifies
tion  of  3
hrs  pag  [tisthe  faſhion  of  motbers,whenthay
afcionrs
doe  well;toreioycey  when  they  are  licke,  or
hel
die,  to  mourne  exceedingly,  and  to  bee  mooued  with  pitie  apd
compallioo.  The  Galatians  deſerued  no  loue  at  Pas  band:  far
heir  apoſjaſie  was  very  foule;  yet  becaule  there  pp  ſome  good
of  recoveryheei,
in  them,and  there  was  hope
things  remaiving
largethhis
bowels  towards  them,  and  ſhewes  bis  loue  with com.
If  this  bee  thecaſe  with  P.ov,  then  great  is  theloveand
to  his  children.  If  the  childe  be  licke  andfra.,,
wpche
pwr
rad  "  oo.
in
to  beremembred  if  we  be  of  the  number  of  them  herbs
having
care  to  pleaſe  God,our  weake.  ,,
io  Chriſt,  hating  vice,
Ho
"reels.  0
_  and
ant  och
doe  not  aboliſh  the  mercie  of  God,
the  ſame.  The  weakened  of  the
ry  Hoe
yryary
(ait
ira
C01  rp  heap
eny/o  bath  the  Lorde
on  on
and  rp  the  reaſon:  for  be  knowes  our  framed  thay,
that  feare  rag
we  are but  duft,P(al-103.14.
When  Pv/  faith,  /r-:#el};
hee  ſignifies  the  rniedſure  of  ficinkd
ſteriall  paines,that  they  were  as  the  trauell-of  a  woman  with  chil
and  this  he  ſhewesplainchyip  the  particulars,  2,  Cor.  1  1{23,  Ze,
that  was  ſent  in  his  time  toreſtore
,was  at  length  ſoweat  1,
cd  in  this  buſineſſe,that
he  deſired  the  Lordtotakehimout  ofthe  |
Tenor  94-  afro  Prophet
Sg
and  yet  ke  Baſes  no  paines
Towra
Againg,  whao,  bee
ſaith;  [  47avel!,  hee
lgbifies
for  35
euch  ir  0h  iumen  oppomeed  of
regencration
to  a  wo-
Ng
poo  crie,  to.the  trauell  it
glnldreo
ace  'boroe
to  God.  This  ſerves  very  well
-  hat  gondenme  the
vocll  and
exe
beaflefa  ith,7  x
hb"  he  teacheth  ithatif
|  maltae
Ik  heli  gp  cas
theels  (t}  a  poſlibilitie  wo_—_
