---
page: 265
pdf_page: 287
---
the  Epiſile
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.4-
273
come,and  as  (ignes  of  grace  by  diine  inſtitution  forthe  time  of
theold  Teſtament.  Wirhout  Chriſt,when  they  arc  vied  onely  for
cultorne,  whether  before  or  after  the  death  of  Chriſt:  -
Againſt
Chriſt,  when  they  are  eſteemed  as  meritorious  canſcsof  ſaluation,
5  andtheiulificatioo  ofalioner  is  placed  inthem,cither  in  whole  or
in  part  :  as  though  Chriſt  alone  were  not  ſuthcient,  lo  thisreſpeR
Paxicalls  ther  impotent
and  beggarly  rudiments.
And  Pau!  having  ſaid;that  the  Galatians  returned  againeto  the
rodiments  of  the  law;in  the  next  words  he  ſhewes  how  they  doeit:
P  namely,  by  ſcrming  them  againe,  T  hey  (eruedoryeelded  ſeruice  to
them  three  waies:  In  opiniop,becaule  they  iudged  themto  bene-
cya  parts  of  Gads  worſhip,  and  meanes  of  their  ſalvation.  In
Conſcience  :  becauſethey  ſubigced  their  conſciences  to  them.  ln
affeQion,  becauſethey  placed  part
of  their  atfiance  in  them  for
15  their  iuſtification  and  (aluation.
It  may  be  demanded,  how  the  Galatians  can  be  faidto  returne
againe  tothe  rudiments  of  the  law,  and  feruc  them  againe,that
wereneuer  viedto  them  before?  Anſwer.  lo  the  ſpeech  of  Paul
thereis  that  which  is  called  Carachreſic,thatis,a  kinde  of  fperaking
to  ſomewhat  improper  io  reſpect  of  haenelſe
and  elegancie.  Thelike
we  have,Reth  1.22,  when  Rath  is  faid  toreturne  to  ludea  with  Na
om  zand  yet  (he  was  never  there  before.  Neverthele(ſe;the  ſpeech
in  ſenſe  is  moRt  lignificant
and  proper.  For  Pan!  (nodoubr)  lig-
nifies  hereby,that  when  the  Galatians  ſubicRed  thetyſelues  tothe
2;  rudiments  ofthe  law,  placed  their  (aluatioo  10  part  even  ivtbemn,
'  they  didin  effeR  and  in  tructh
as  much  as  returne/againototheis
old  ſuperltitions,and  ſerucagainetbeirtfalſe
gods.  .
77  31h  t
Heere  then  wee  baue  a  deſcription
of  tho  apoſtalie
of  the(Gn-
latians.:  It  is  avoluntarie  _  for  Paw!  ſaith,
ee  will  ſerac)atter
zo  the  knowledge  of  the  trueth,  in  whichthey  returne  againe  roche
rudiments  of  the  law,by  yceldragſybiecion,
and  ſeruice  tothemme
which  aReof  theirs  is\ndeedas  muchas  it  they  bad  ſeraedagaine
their  falſegods,  Heere  ſome  may  fay,,  if  this  5  as"  4
lioned  agatn(t  the  Holy  Gholt.  Anſwer.  The  finne  againtt  th
35  holy  Ghoſt,  is  indeed  a  voluntary  -finne:  but-  that  is  by  reaſuo  of
theobllinacy  and  malice  of  the  will  :  and  this  ofeacein  the  Gala-
tians  was  voluntary  onely  by  infrmitie.  Againe,the  ſinve  agaioſt
the  holy  Gholt,  is  an  vniverlall  apoltaſie,  in  reſpeRt  ot  all  the
Articles  of  ecligicn  t  for  that  ſinne  makes  men  crucitie  Chriſt
40  crucited,  Hebrewe'  6  5,  andto  tread  vader  foot  theSonne  ot  God?
the  apoltalie  of  the  Galatiags.was  particular  one)y  in  he  article
ol  iullification.
