---
page: 7
pdf_page: 29
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.  r.
17
Gith  »  The  righteoulneiſe  of  the  Iraclites,  was  like  the  morning
dewe,which  the  riling  of  the  Sunne  conſumeth,  cha.  6,4,  ob  was
a  burning  light,and  the  lewesreioyced  in  this  light  :  thatis  well
buemarke  what  is  added  :  for  anhowre  or  motrent,  lobns.;  5,  They
5  which  cried  Oſamato  the  Sonne  of  Damid,ſhortly  atter  cried,  Cruc\:fie
bimgrucifie
him,  T  he  crotſe  and  perſecution,  will  makemencallthe
Golpel
in  queſtion,it
not  forſake  it,  L1k-8.13,  The  multitude
of
peopleamong  vs  are  like  waxe;  and  are  fit  to  take  the  ſtampe,and
umprefiionot  any  religion;  andit  is  the  law  of  the  land  that  makes
xa  themoltimbrace  the  Goſpell,and  notconſcience.  That  wee  my
conltantly  perſcuere  inthe  profeſſion  of  the  true  taith,both  ia  lite
anddeatb;helt  weemultreceiue  the  Goſpel  {imply  for  it  ſelfe,  be-
cauſc  it  is  the  Goſpel  of  Chriſt,and  not  for  apy  by-reſpeR  Second.
we  mult  be  moctified,and  renued  inthe  {pirit  of  our  miads,and
45  futferno  by-corners  in  out  bearts.,.  where  [ecret  vabeleefe;(ecret
hypoctifie;and  fpirituall  pride  may  lurke,and  lie  hid  from  the'sy
of  men,  Heb.3.1  2.  Thirdly,wee  mult  not  onely  behearers  of  th
word;  but  alſo  doers  of  it  inthe  principall  dutics  tobe  practiſed,  of
faith;conver(ion,and  new  obedience.
$6  ©  Tocometo  the  (ccond  point  ;-  when  Pautdaith,  the  Galatians
were  remooued  from  him  that  called  them,  that  is,  himſelfe;  hee
ſhewes  Chriltian  modeltie:  becauſe  ſpeaking  things
praiſe-worthy
ot  bimſelfe,he  ſpeakes  inthe  third  perſon:  from  bum  that  hath  cal.
led;e5c.  T  he  like  he  doeth,
2.  Cor.12,  |  know  4  man  taken  wp  into  the
25  third  beaver:  that  ishim(elte,  And  /ob»  (aith,  the  diſciple  that  leaned
on  the  breait
of  Chriſt,  whom  Chriſt  loved,  asked  whom  he  meart,
Tob.  14.23.  Atterthis  praftiſe,  we  areto  giae  praiſe  to  God,  and  to
hisiuſtraments,but  neither  to  praiſe  nor  diſpraiſeourſelues.  T  his  is
«ESI
TEL
ere
Og  ang
Chriltian  civility  to  be  ioyned  with  our  Faith,
38
Secondly,when  helaith,  who  bath  called  you  inthe  grace  of  Chriſt,
welcarne;thatthe
ſcope  ofthe  Galpellis  to  briag  men  tothe  grace
of  Chrilt,  Tothis  very  end  God  hath  vouchlated  vs  ia  Eogland
the  Goſpel  more  then  fourtie  yeares,  And  therefore  our  words,and
deedes,and  lives,  ſhould  beeſeaſoned  with  grace,  and  favour  of  it:
35  and  ſhew  forth  the  graceof  God.Secondly,we  owe  vatoGod  great
thankfulnes,  and  wee  can  never  be  ſujlicicucly  thankefull  tor  this
benefir,  that  God  calles  vs  to-bis  grace.  But  it  is  otherwiſe  ,  the
ſuane  is  a
goodly  creaturezyet  becavſe  wee  {ee  it  Caily,  it  iz  not  re-
gardedzandio  it  is  with  the  grace  oi  Gud.
40
Thirdly,  the  Galatians  are  remooued  pot  onely  from  thedo-
Qritie  of  Paw/,  but  alſo  from  the  gracc  of  God,  Audthe  reaſon  is,
becauſethey  ioyned  che  workes  of  thelaw  with  Chrill  &  his  grace
ja
