---
page: 290
pdf_page: 312
sortable_pagination_id: "290"
---
Chap.  4-
A  Commentarie  þ  on
with  tbem  like  changes  in  thelittle  world,  that  is,  in  the  bodievof
men,
Againe,  to  change  the  voice,  is  to  conferre  with  the  —
2nd  vpon  conference  to  temper  his  voice  totheir  manners
condition,asnources  (tammetr  and  liſpe  with  children.  For  ſome  5
are  with  pitieto  be  recouered  :  and  ſome  with  terrour,  /#d.  2223;
Hence  [  gather,
T  hat  the
conference  of  Paſtours  and  people,  is  a  thing  very  ne.
cellary,  Pax/  heere  aſcribes  more  toit  then  to  his  Epiltle,  Itis  the
kfe  ot  preaching.  For
by  it  the  teachers  know  better  what  to  teach,  19
and  the  people  better
to  conceivethingstbat
are  tavght.Herethen
we  fee  a  commontaule.
Men  are-coment  to  heargbut
they  wills
conferre  with  their  teachers:  and  in  the  time  of  licknefſe;the  fir
perſon  chat  is  conferred  with,isthe  Phyſician  :  and the  Miniſteris
laſt ſent  for  :  whereas  onthe  contrary  ghe  cure  of  theſoule,iothe  5
ek  eakong  cntneigect  lentel
|  ID
;  here  is
theway
toattaine
and
that  is,  that  learners  deogither  with  their  nthes  :  andthe
reachers  againe  temper  their  voices  to  the  capacitie
of  thieivlear-
_—  m—_  was  with  Es  at  the  _  of  ne  FOR
thus
Chrilt  wasio  the  Temple  among  the  doors,  hearing
and  asking  them  queſtions,LZuke  2.44.
Thirdly,  Pas!  heere  ſets  downe  the  way  to  make  a
paci
for  religion  in  theſelaſt  dayes:"and  the  way  is,  that  the  Paſtoursof
the  Church  bee  aſſembled  together  by  thezutboritic  of  Princes:
and  being  a{ſembled,  they  temper  their  voices  one  toanother  x-
cording
to  the  written  word,  Thus  may  they  that  lie  nowvnder
the  apoltalie  of  Anticbrift,be  recovered;  Ate:  15.6,  Andthe  pro-
miſe  of  God  is,that  when  twe  or  three  come  togetber-1n  bis  name
hee  wil
be  with  them,  Mane  18,
Jo
Laſlly;the  Miniſters  (  as  here  wee  ſee  )areto  temper  their  gifts
and  peach  to  the  condition  of  their  hearers.  The  Coriathians
were  babesin  Chriſt,and  Pas/feeds  them  with  milke,  1.  Cor,  3.3:
tothe  [ew  he  becamea  lew;tothe  Gentile  a  Gentile,that  he  _
winneſome,r.Cor.  9.18,  Forthis  cauſe  it  wereto  bee  wiſhed,
thats
Catechiling  were  more  vied  then  it  is  of  our  Miniſters.  For  our
*  peopleare  tor  the  moſt  part  rude  and  vacatechiſed:  and  therefore
they  prohitlirtle  or  nothing  by  Sermons.  A  {
coſuch
is  li
re
c  ſer  before
achi!
tisno
di
gr
leat-
ned  Mivilters,in  plaine  and  familiar  manner  tocatechiſe  :  for  this
is  to  lay  the  foundation  ,  without  which  all  labour  in  buildings
in  vaine,  Againe,our1gnorant  people  ſhould  be  content  os
