---
page: 271
pdf_page: 293
---
the  Epiſtle  tothe  Galathians.
Chap.  4.
daies\:neicher  doe  we  place  holignes  or  the  worſhip  of  Godinthem:
but  we  keepe  them  onely  for  orders  ſake  ,  that  men  may  cometo
Church  to  beare  Gods  word,  And  though  weretaine  the  names  of
Saints  daies,  yet  we  giueno  worſhipto  Saints  ,  but  to  God  alone.
5  *Andſuchdaics  as  contained  nothing  in  them  but  {uperltition,
as
the  conception  and  allumption  ofthe  Virgin  47ary,  we  have  cut
off.  Thus  doth  the  Church  with  vs  obſerue  holy  daies;  and  no  0-
therwiſe,  lgdeede  the  ignorant  multitude  among  vs  taile  greatly
in  the  obſeruing  of  daics.  For  they  greatly  ſolemnile  the  time  of
16  the  birth  of  Chrilt,and  then  they  keepe  few  or  no  markets:  but  the
Lords
day  is  not  accordingly  reſpeRted  :  and  men  will  not  bee  dil-
{waded  from  following
of  Hom.  onthat  day.
Againe,to  obſerue
daies  of  good  and  bad  ſuccelle,  according  to
theconſtellations  of  the  heauens,  is  an  heatheniſh  faſhion  to  bee  a-
t  5  voided.  Foritis  here  condemned  inthe  Galatians.  Here  therefore,
wemult  be  put  in  minde;not  to  obſerve  theplanetarie  hovres  :  for
men  ſuppole  that  the  houres  of  the  day  areruled  by  the  planets,
and  hereupon,  thatiome  houres  are  good,  and  luckie  (as  they  fay  }
and  ſomevaluckie\:that  men  are  taken  with  planets,and  borne  vn-
19  dervoluckie  planets.  But  theleare  heatheniſh  conceits.  Neither
mult  wereſpe  Rt  our  Horoſcope
or  the  time  of  our  birth,and  the  con  -
ſtellation  ot  the  beauensthen,  as  though  we  could  hereby  kno\:v,
what  ſhould  befall  vs  tothe  end  of  our  daies.  And  we  muſt  not  put
differenceot  daies,  asthough  ſome  wereluckievntovs,  and  ſome
2;  valuckie,  according  tothe  courle  of  theltarres.  The  like  |  lay  of
the  Criticall  daies,  that  is,  the  7.  and  the  14.  day  after  thata  man
begins  to  be  licke.  For  they  are  grounded  vpon  the  aſpeAs  of  the
moone,  which  are  not  to  beregarded.  And  the  Climatericall  yeares
arenot  to  be  obſcrued  as  dangerous  and  diſmall.  T  heobferuatiof
3%  ofthe  lignes,  is  ofthe  ſame  nature,  For  the  12.  (ignesare  nothing
elſe,  but  12.  partsof  the  firſt  moouecable,  which  is  but  a  ſuppoſed
heaven.  Therefore  there  is  nodapger  inthe  thing,butin  our  con»
ceit,  Weareto  feare  God,and  not  to  feare  the  (tarres\:neitherarewe
to  makedifferences  of  daiesinreſpet  ofthem,  as  though  the  at-
45  faires  we  take  io  hand,ſhould  proſper  theberter  or  theworle,  ip  re-
ſpe  oftheir  different  operation.  Gods  commandement  is,  Ferre
wt  the
ipnerof  beauen,  lerem.10  1.  And  goodrealon.  Fornoman
can  by  learning  know  the  operation  of  the  (tarres  :  becauſe  their
lights  and  operations  are  all  mixt  togitherin  all  places  vpon  earth:
4  andtherforenoobſeruation  can  be  made  ofthis  or  that  (tarre,more
thenof  thisor  that  hearbe  ,  whea  all  hearbes  are  mix2d  and  com-
pounded  togither.  Againe,  the  operation  of  the  (tarresis  _—_
iphty
