---
page: 272
pdf_page: 294
---
Chap.  4-
A  Commentarie  pon
280
light,and  light  hath  nooperation  but  in  heate  or  cold,moiſture  or
drinetle.  In  thisreſpe,(though'we  may  well  obſeroethe  foll  and
the  change  of  the  moone)itis  Doliſhociſe  to  aſcribe  the  regiment
ot  our  affairesto  the  (tarres,they  being  matters  contingent,which
dependon  the  wiland  pleaſure  of  man.  La(tly,it  is  a  great  ouerlight  $5
to  bold  ſundrie  of  the  (tarresto  be  maligoant  and  infortunate,  in
reſpe&  of  vs\:whereas  they  are  thecreatures  of  God,and  their  light
ſcrues  forthegood  of  man.  Ina  word,  weare  notto  make  ditte-
rence  of  daies,neither  in  reſpeR  of  holines,nor  inceſpeR  of  good
or  badde  ſucceſle,
Verſ.  11.  Tamafraid,ese:
in  theſe  words,  the  Apollle  ſets  forth  the  greatne(Te  of  the
ApoRtatteof  the  Galatians,  by  the  effeRtthereot,  which  was  to  '5
cauſe  him  to  feare,  lealt  he  had  be!tewed  labour  in  vaine  among
them.
Firlt  the  occaſion  ofthe  words  malt  be  conſidered;  and  thatis
expretſedin  the  former  words,  ye  obſerne  dates  and  menerhs,  And
hereupon  befaith,  /  am  in  feare  of  you.  And  thus  Pas/teachetb,  that  **
works  ſet  vp  as  cavſes  of  ſaluation  with  Chrilt,  make  void  the  Mi-
pillery  and  grace  of  God,  It  may  beſaid,;this  is  meant  of  ceremoni-
all  workes,and  fo  it  is  true.  |
an{wer,it  isindeed  ſpoken  of  ceremo-
niall  workes,but  it  mult  be  inlarged  to  all  workes  without  excepti-
on.  For  Paul  faith,c.5.v.3.fye  be  errcumeiſed,ye  are  bound  to  fulfilltbe  *5
whole  law,  Hence  then  it  tollowes,that  the  doQrine
of  iultitication
by  workesis  an  errourin  the  foundationzand  being  diltinly;  and
obllinately  maintained;there  is  no  hope  of  ſaluation.
Apaine,here  we  fee  the  fidelity  ofthe  Apolile  Paxgand  it  Nands
in  two  things  :  the  firſt  is,  his  painefull  aud  weariſome  labour,to  3?
gaine  the  Galatians  to  God.  The  ſecond  is;his  care  that  the  fore-
{aid  labour  be  not  in  vaine,  And  in  this  example  of  his,  we  learne
ebrecthings.T
he  firſt,  that  they  whichare,or  deſire  to  bedi{peaſers
of  the  word,mult  doeit  not  forthe  belly,  or  forlucres  ſake,or  for
the  praiſe  of  men,  but  ſimply  for  this  ende,  that  they.  may
gaine
35
foules  to  God.  T  he  Scribe  his  would  have  followed  Chrit  for
gaine,was  repelled  with  this  anſwer,  that  Chriſt  had  nor  ſo  much  as
a  place  where  to  l1y  his  head,  Math,$  20.a0d
topreach  for  Agr,  wy
is  tomake  a  merchandiſe
of  the  word  of  God,  2.Cor.2.17..  i  be  {e-
cond  isthat  Miniltersafter  the  example  of  P.w!,mult  be  labourers  49
iadeed,1.Cer.3.9.and  workemen,2.7\:m.2  15.  And  they  muſt  ſhew
themſclues  to  be  {o,by  their  carcand  induſtry  in  winning  fovles  y
(200,
