---
page: 295
pdf_page: 317
sortable_pagination_id: "295"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galathiaps.
Chap.
4.
393
jatoher  owne  raome.  T  he  other,  namely  [/a«c  war  borne  by  che  pro-
ir
Sun  wen  tothe  order  of  nature  yet  notby  the  (trength
nature,but  by  the  vertue  of  the  promiſe  of  God.
ln  the  birth  of  //>mae/  Sarees  delires  was  good;  that  thepromiſe
5  of  GoTmightheeaccompliſhed  :  but  therneanes  was  carnall,the
ſubllitution  of
her
bandmaid.  T
bis  is  thecondition  of  thegodly  :
they  intend  and  deſire  the  belt  things,
but  they  failein  themaner
of  doing,  The  Tpirit  ſlicres  vp  good  motions,and  the  fleſhcorrop-
teth  them.  P  a  ſaith,  that  to  will  was  preſent  wth  himbut  he  conldnot
10  dee  that  which  was  good  as  bee  onght.  T  his  mult  cauſe  vs  alwaies  to
bumble  oor  ſelues  for  our  beſt  works.
Againe,we  are  bere  taught  not  to  make  ha(le  to  accompliſh  our
delices,but  when  God  promifeth  apy  thing,  to  wait  his  leaſure,  and
inthe  meane  {caſon  tolive  in  fubiction,  Sara  with  all  her  haſte
1  5  could  not  prevent  Godsprovidence.  Shee  hath  her  deſire  inthe
birth  of  7waci,  but  yet  hee  is  borne  according  tothe  feſh,in  bon-
NEHaneRe  is  not  the  promiſed  ſeed.
n  the  birth  of  //aac  weeſeethe  vertue  of  the  promiſe  of  God,
when  it  is  mixed  with  our  faith  :  for  then  it  makes  things  poſlible,
16  that  are  otherwiſe  impoſlible,  arr.  17.20,  If  then  we  delire  any
good  things  at  the  bands  of  God,  ourdueticis  inlilence  and  pati-
ence  to  relt  on  the  promiſes  of  God,  and  then  our  deſire  ſhall  in-
deed  beaccompliſhed,
24  By  the  which  things  another  thing  is  meant.  For  theſe  mo-
thers  are  the  two  Teſtaments  ,  the  one  (which  is  Agar)  of  mount
Sinaiwhich  gendreth  to  bondage
—.
25  For  Agar,  or  Sindi,  is  4  mountaine  in  Arabiaand  it  an-
to  Jeruſalem  which  now  ts,  and  (hee  is  in  bondage  with
30  her  children,
The  application  of  the  former  here  beginneth:  and  theſenſe  of
thewords  is.  Avother  thing  meant]  the  wordsaretbus.  Theſe  things
we  ſpoken  by  allegorie  :  that  is,one  thing  isfaid,  and  an  other  thing  is
meant.  7  wo  wethers]  Agar  and  Sara.  Are  two)  they  repreſent  or  lig-
nifie  thetwo  Teſtaments,  Eft  is  put  for  ſomficar.  Ot  thetwo  Te-
ſlaments[  will  ſpeakeafterward,
The  ene  ]  the  one  Teſtament,  which  is  the  covenant  of  workes,
[which  is  Agar  which  Teſtament  is  figured  by  Agar  |  i  of  monnt  S1-
4  »«]came
from  mount  Sinai,  where  the  law  was  delivered  tothe  1{-
radlites.  And  gendreth  to  bondage  that  is,it  makesall  them  bondmen
qiat  looke  to  beiultified  and  taucd  by  the  works  of  thelaw.
For
