---
page: 297
pdf_page: 319
sortable_pagination_id: "297"
---
the  Epiitle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.  4.
calleJ)they  are  not  ſenſes,  but  applications  or  ves  of  ſcripture.  It
may  be  ſaid,  tbat  the  hiſtoric  of  Abrabams  familie  here  propouns
ded,  hath  belide  bis  properandliterall  ſenſe,  a  fpiritualor  myſticall
ſenſe.  |
anſaerjthey  are  not  two  ſenſes,  but  twoparts  of  oneful  and
5  jotice  ſenſe.  For  not  onely  the  barehiſtory,  but  alſo  that  which  is
thereby  lignified,is  the  fall
ſepſeofthe  Holy  Gholl.
Againe,here  welſee  the  Scriptureis  not  ouly  penned  in  the  prc-
tearmes,but  alſo  in  ſundry  divine  figures  and  allegories.  The
bop  of  Salomenis  an  Alleyory  borrowed  from  the  flowſhip  of
man  and  wife,to  lignitie  the  Communion  betweene  Chriſt  and  his
Church:  &ſo  is  the  45.plalme.
The  booke  of  Dame/zand  the  Reue-
lationzis  an  allcgoricall  hiſtoric.  The  Parables  ofthe  old  and  new
Teſtameuts,arc  figures  or  allegories.  When  Daxid  ſaith,  Pſal.45  4.
Ride  on  pon  the  te  Leen
icehe  deſcribes  a  Prin-
15  cescbarciorby  s
Trotneckes  ce  1s  the  word,  thehorſes  that
draw  it,are  three,  1
rut
ekenes.iullice,  And  thus  the  throne  of
Ggdisdeſcribedby  like  allegorie.  ?/al.  89.v.  14.  the  foundation  of
the  chrone,are  righteoulnes,and  equity\:the  maine  bearersto  goe
before  the  theope,are  mercy  and  truth,
10
Itmay  be  demanded,  whendoth  the  Scripture  ſpeake  pro-
ly,  and  when  by  figure  ?  An/wer.  ]f  the  proper  (ignitication  of
|  evonds  be
againlt  common  reaſon,  or
againſtthe  analogie  of
faith,or  againſt
good  manners;  they  arenoc  Sen  tobes  taken  pro-
perly,but
fi  Ure.
ewords  of
Chnill.  1ob.  1  5.1.1  am  the  true  vines
15  and  wy  Fatber
is  an  buſbandman;  It  they  betaken  properly,  they  are
abſurd  in  common  reaſon  :  therefore  the  wordesare  figurative,
andthe  ſenſeis  this:  /  aw  as  the  true  vine,and  my-Father
as  an  huſband»
mer.  The  wosds  of  Chriſt,  Take,cate,
this  is  my  body,  1.Cor.11,v.24.
taken  properly,  are  againſt  chearticles  of  faith,
He  aſcended  into  hea-
30  zen,  and  fits  at  the  right  band  of  God.  Aud  they  are  againll  the  ſixth
commandement,  Thos  ſba/t  nat  kill,  And  therefore  they  mult  bee
expounded  by  figure  thus  :  Thus  bread  is  @  ſigne  of  my  body,  |  T  helike
is  to  be  ſaid  of  other  places  :  they  mult  be  taken  properly,  it  it  be
pollible  :  if  nor,
by  figure,
35
Heretbeothey  are  to  bee  blamed,  that  makethe  vic  of  Rheto-
ricke  in  the  Bible,to  be  a  meere  foppery.  For  to  this  purpoſe  there
isabooke  in  Eogliſh  heretofore  publiſhed,  Asallo  they  of  the  Fa»
mily  of  love  are  iuſily  to  bee  condemned,  who  in  another  extremi-
ty,turne  all  the  Bibleto  an  Allegorie,  yea,  cuen  that  which  is  faid
4  of  Adam,and  of  Chrilt.
They  aretwoTeftaments]  they  are,that  is,  they  ſignifie\:and  ſo  Agar
isSingz  a  mmntaine
119  Aral  ia;tbat  is,ligoifies  Sinai.
I  bug  #be  rocke  -
abs.
