---
page: 277
pdf_page: 299
---
the  Epiftle  tothe  Galathizns,
+  Ghap:4.
hearts  ofmen  :  but  whea  {  evep-then,  when  weareintthemidil  of
manifold  afflitions.Rom.$.2.5.Paul  beares  about  him  the  moriifcatio
on  of
our  Lord  Je/ut,  not  forhis  damnation,  batthat  the  life  of  Got
might  be  manife(}  in  by  mortallfleſp.2,Cor.4,10.And  he  aithplainely,
5  that  the  grace  of  Godis  made  perfett  through  wenkneſſs,2.Cor.  12.9.
By  this  we  are  taught  a  hijgh;point  of  religion,and  rhatis,nor  one
ly  to  be  content  with  the  milcriesand  troubles  of  this  life,  but  to
reioyce  therein  :  becauſe  when  we  are  weakelt;we  are  (trongeſt\:and
when  wethinke  our  (clues  forſaken  of  God  inthetime  of  giltreile,
wo  weare  not  forlaken  indeede,  but  hauc  his  ſpeciall  tauour  and  pro-
tetion,2.Cor,  12,10,  Let  this  bethought  vpon  +  for  the  workes  of
Godin  the  cauſe  of  mansſaluation,are  in,  and  by  their  cantraries,
This  is  the  manner  of  Gadsdealiog.
Theſecondthing  is;that  Pa/preached  the  Goſpel  to  the  Gala-
x5  tians  44  the  firfl,  asit  were  breaking  the  ico,  where  none  had  prea-
ched  before.  la  this  beclaimeshispriviledye,  that  he  was  to  be  e-
lleemed  as  a  Mailter-builder,  that  laid'the.  foundation  of  the
Church  of  Galatia  :  and  withall  be  giues  a  cloſe  /remto  thetalſe  A-
poltles,who  did  not  plant  Churches,
but  onely  corrupt  thens  after
16  they  were  planted.  Againe,P
ar  here  notes  the  condition  of  Gods
Church,or  kingdome:  in  which  fielt  comes  thehusbaadman  and
ſawes  good  ſecede,  and  then  after  comes  the  diuell  witty  his  tares,
Math.13.24.  andallchisiscuidentin  the  Churgh'of  Galatia,  firlt
planted  by  Pax/,andtben  ſeduced  by  talle  teachers.
25
Thehird  thing  is,  that  Paw/  preached  being  abour  bins  the  triall
of  God,
his  triallis  a  worke  of  G0J  whereby  he  diſcogers  vato  vs,
andeothe  world,  either  the  graceor  thecorcuptionotour  hearts.
Thus  God  tried  Abrabam,Heb.'l  1.17.the  lfraclites;|  Dew.6.  r.and
Exzzchias,2.Chron.z2.;  t.and  Paulin  this  place,
39
Thevſe.  We  mult  not  thinke  ic  (trange,  when  we  areafflited
any  way.  Nay,wg  mult  looketortrials,and  be  content  when  they
cone,  1,Pet.q.13./aw.1.2,  We  are  cither  gold  indeedgor  gold/in
ſhew  ;  if  indeede,  we  mult  becalt  intothe  turnace,  that  wernay  be
purged:  if  we  begoldin  appearance,  we  muſt  againeintothe  tur-
35  nace,  that  we  may  be  knownewhat  weare.  The  belt  vine  inthe
vineyard  mult  be  lopped  and  cutwith  the  pruning  kaite,  that  it
may  beare  the  more  iruite./ob.15.
Againe,  we  mult  take  beed  le(t  there  be  any  hidden  corruption
reigning  in  our  hearts\:and  we  mul  labour  to  be  indeed  that  which
40  we  appeare  to  be.  For  we  mult  betried  by  God\:and  then  that  which
now  lies  hid,ſhall  be  diſcouered  to  our  (hame.
Lallly,we  multlooke  to  it,  that  there  be  ſoundnelle  of  grace  in
L  4
VS
