---
page: 8
pdf_page: 30
---
Chap.1.
A  Commentarie
pon
18
in  the  cauſe  of  their  juſtification,and  ſalvation,
Here  it  muſt  be  ob-
ſerued,that  they  which  makean  vaion  of  grace,and  workes,in  the
cauſe  of  iuſtification,are  ſeparated  from  the  grace  of  God.  Grace
admits  no  partner,or  fellow.Gracemult  be
giuen  cuery  way,
or  it  is  no  way  grace.  Hence  it  followes,  that  the
preſent  Church  5:
of  Romeis  departed
from  the  grace  of  God,  becauſe  it  makes  a
concurrence
of  grace  and  workes,in
the  iuftification  ofa  (inner  be-
fore  God:  and  we  may  not  make  any  reconciliation  with  that
—_  in  religion  :  becauſe
it is  become  an  eneray
ofthe  grace
of
God.
the  Galatians  reuolt?rs  avortber
The  third  point  is,to  what  thing
—_—
that  which  Paw/taugbt,com-
Goſpelzthat  is,to  a  better
nded
of  Chriſt  andthe
workes
of  the  law.  Andthis  forged  gol-
pell  the  falſe  Apoſtles  taught,  aod\:the-  Galatians  quickely  re
ceiued,  Here  we  fee  the  curious  nicene(ſeand  daintine(ſe  of  mins  rg
nature,that  cannot  be  content  with  the  good  things  of  God,vales
they  be  framed  co  our  minds\:and
if
vs  tor  a  whiletb
doe  not  pleaſe  vs  long,  but  we  maſt
hauenewthings.  Our  fr
parents  not  content  with  their  firſt  eſtate,  mult  ncedes  be  as  God.
Nadab  and  Abibu  offer  ſacrifice  toGod,  but  the  fire  mult  bet  of  34
Lev,r0.1,
their  owneappointment.King  Achas  will  offer  ſacrifice  to  Gad,bue
z  Reg.16,  t1,
the  aftar  mult  be  like  the  altar  at  Damaſcus.  Falſe  teachers  belide
Reu.  2.24.
the  doctrine  of  the  Apoltles,had  profound  learning  of  their  owne.
T  he  lewes  belidethe  written  law  of  4Loſe;,mult  have  their  Cabal,
containingas  they  ſuppoſed,  more  my(ticall  &excellent  dodtriae.  2  $
The  Papilts  belidethe  written  word,  fet  vp  vowritten  Tradition
which  they  make  equall  with  the  Seripture.  We  that  profeſie  the
Goſpel  are  not  altogether  free  from  this  taule.We  like,that  Chrilt
ſhould  be
p1
d  ;  but  Sermons  are  not  in  cornmon  reputation
learned,neither  doe  they  greatlypleaſe  the  molt,  vnletle  they  bee  zo
garniſhed  with  skill  of  arts;tongues,and  variety  of
2  this
curiovlae(le  and  om  ASA
the  Logd  condemaes,  when  he
Deutc.22.9,
forbids  ploying
with
the
ox:  and  the  aſſr,and  the  wearing
of  germents  of
linſs-  wolfe.>  And
it  isthe  worſt  kiad
of  difbvatantarnt,  that  is  in
things  pertainiog  to  ſaluation.  It  is  called  by  Paul,  the
itching
of  the  7;  5
2.Tim,4.5.
eareaand  it  is  incident  to  them  that  tollow  their  owne  lulſts.  T  be  re-
medy  of  this  finne;is  to  learne  the  firſt  lefſon  that  is  tobe  learned
ofthem  that  are  to'be  good  ſchollers  in  theſchoole  of  Chrilt  :  and
thatis  to  feele  our
pouerty,  and  in  what  extreamencede  we  (tand
ofthe  death  and  paſſion  of  Chriſt\:and  withall  to  hanger  and  thirlt  49
afrer  Chriſt,as  the  breadand  water  of  lite.Reade  //4.44.  3+19h,7.  37
P/al.25.11.theexarpleof  DamdyPſal,14  3.5,\Vhen  theheart  and
con-
