---
page: 279
pdf_page: 301
---
the  Epiitle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.
4.
287
Thirdly,  bere  we  ſee  the  goodoefle  of  Godzthat  doth  not  ſpeake
tovs  in  bis  Maie(ly,but  appoints  men  in  bis  ſtead,whoare  his  Em-
baiſadours  to  beſeech  vs  tobe  reconciled  to  him.
Fourthly,there  mult  be  fidelity  in  teachers,  becauſe  they  land
5  ja  teaching,intheltead  of  Chri(t:  and  therefore  muli  onely  deliver
that  which  they  know  to  be  the  will  of  Chrilt,
Fiftly,T  hey  mult  haue  a  ſpeciall  care  of  holineſſe  of  life,  becauſe
they  ſpeake  in  the  name  and  roome  of  God.  Reade  Lew,  10.2,
Sixtly,  the  people  are  to  heare  their  teachers  with  all  reverence,
19  uu  if  they  would  heare  the  very  Angels  of  God,  or  Chrilt
bimlelte.
Seaucathly,  the  comfort  of  the  Miniſtery  is  asſure  and  cer-
taine,  as  if  an  Apgel  came  downe  from  heauen,
or  Chriſt  himlelfe
to  comfort  vs  :  ſo  beit  we  doc  indeede  truely  turneto  Gad  and
v5  repeat.
Perſe  1  F-
What  was  your  felicity  ?  that  is,  you  elteemedit  to  be  your  felici-
toty,  that  you  receiued  me  and  my  doArine.  Tee  would  bane  pliiched
out  your  cye7  and  bane  ginen  them  to  mee)  a
prouerbiall  ſpeech,ligoi-
fyiog  the  ſpeciall  love  of  the  Galatians  to  Pax/,ſoas  nothing  which
had  could  betoo  deare  for  bim.  If  «  had  benne  poſſible]  this  he
fith,
becauſe  no  man  canplucke  out  his  eye  to  doe  another  man
2;  good:  orthus,no
man  can  pollibly  giue
his  eyeand  the  (ight  there-
of  toanother
In  theſe  words  Pav/ſets  downe  the  third  ligne  of  the  loue  and
reverence  which  the  Galatians  ſhewed  to  him  :  andthatis,  that
they  thought  themſclues  happy  by  reaſon  of  Pas/s  Miniſtery,  and
30  would  haue  parted  with  their  owne  a=  for  his  good.
Hence  welearnve,  that-there  is  atelicity  in  thetime  of  this  life,
and  that  is,to  receiueandimbrace  the  doftrine  of  the  Goſpel.  So
ſaith  Chriſt  elſe-where.  Zxk,$.21and  11.18,  MMath.7  25,  True
happinefſe  ſtands  in  ove  reconciliation  with  God  in  Chriſt,  And
35  this  reconciliation  is.  offered  and  given  vs  on  Gods  part  by  his
word  and  promule,  and  it  isreceiued  ofvs,  when  we  turne  to  God,
and  by  faith  reſt  on  the  ſaid  promiſe.  Tobe  io  Gods  kipngdome  is
happineſle  :  and  this  is  the  kingdome  of  God,when  we  religne  our
ſeluesin  ſubieRion  to  his  will  and  word.  The  preaching  of  the
©  word  is  the  key  ofthis  kingdome,  Math.15.19,  and  whenit  is  re-
ceived  into  our  hearts  by  taith,  heauen  is  {et  open  vato  vs  euen  in
thislife,/ob.  1.51.
Th
