---
page: 302
pdf_page: 324
sortable_pagination_id: "302"
---
pon
A  Commentarie
310
Chap.  4-
ſelues  to  bee  citizens
of  the  citic  of  God,  but  in  their  common
dealings  inthe  world,  they  play  the  (tarkerebels  againit  God,  and
his  word,  and  liue  according  to  the  lults  ot  their  blinde  and  vare.
rant  hearts,
Thurdly,when  Pasl  faith,that  Jeraſalem  which  ts  abowe  is  free,  ohe,  ;
he  ſhewes  chat  the  Catholike  Church  15  one  in  number,  and  69
more,(.ant.c.8,  My  done  is
alone  ,  and  the  on\:ly  danghter  of  ber  mathes,
Jobn  10.16,  Oneſorepefold,  There  be  many  members,
but  one  bedie,  t,
Cor.  13,12,
Fourthly,  hence  we  gather,that  the  Catholike  Churchivinoiſi.t6
ble.  For  the  company  of  them  that  dwell  in  heaven  th
their  faith
leruſulen
cannot  bediſcerned  by  theeye.  ob»  law  the  b
deſcending  from  heaven,  yetnot  with  the  bodily  eye,
but  is
ſfiri
Renelation  21.  10.  The  things  which  makethe  CatholikeC
to  bee  the  Church,  namely,  eleRion,  vocation,  iuſtification,
rification,  are  inuilible,  The  Papilt  therefore  erreth,  when
teacheth  ,  that  the  Catbolike
Church  is  a  vilible  company  'vnde
one  Paltour,
the  P
Andtheplaces  which
they
to  orc  viiblcl  of  the  vaiverſall  Church,  concerne
eith
particular  Churches,
or  the  Churches  which  were  in  ——_
the  Apoltles,or  againe,they  ſpeake  of  the  inward  glory,and
tie  of  the  Church,
+69
Free  |  that  is,redeemed
from  the  bondage  of  death  and  ſine;
and
ſo  from  thecurle  of  the  law.  Of  this
|  will  pecke
more  afterward,
The  mother  of  115  all}  (hee  is  called  a  mother,  becauſe  the  worded
God  is  committed  to  the  keeping  of  the  Church,  which  word  is
ſeed,1.Pet.1.23.and  milkes1.Cor.3.2.and
frong  meat,  Heb.5  14.  bod
the  Church
as  a  mother,  which  by  the  miniltery
of  cheſaid  word,
brings
forth  children  to  God,and
after  they  are  born,and  brought  #
foorth,ſhee
feeds  them  with  milke  out
of  her  owne  breaſts,which
arethe  Aa  INER  and  new  Teſtament.
Here.a  great  queltion  is  tobe  propounded,namely,where
wet
ſhall  had  this  ——  Forit  is  thedutie  of
all
children  to
has
recoprle  vato  their  motber,and  to  live  vader  her  wing,  The  aduv-  55
cates  ofthe  Popiſh  Chorch,  Prieſtsand  leſuits,  ſay,  we  mult  bers
conciled  to  the  Church  and See  of  Romezif  we  would  beeof  the
Catholike  Church.  Tothis  purpoſe  they  vie  many  motives,  wil
Reegaeponed  ſeuen  of  them  ;  becauſe  heretofore  they  have been
abroad  among  vs.
The  firſt  motine,  T  he  Church  of  Rome  bath  meanes  of  fureand
certaine  [aterpretation,  I  radition,  Councels,  Fathers  :  wee  have
