---
page: 282
pdf_page: 304
---
A  Commentarie  pou
Chap.  4-
2909
is  a  ſpicituall  mariage  betweene  Chriſt  and  his  Church  \:thatthe
,or  busband,the  Gol-
Church  isthe  Bride,  Chriſt  the  Bri
pelaninſtrumentdrawne  touching  the  marriage  :  the  Sacraments
asſcales,  the  graces  of  the  Spirit  as  loue  tokens,  the  Miniſters  of
of  theBridegroome,and
as  friends
Chriſt,
ſuters  for  him.  [a  thisre-  s|
ſpe&they  put  on  theaffeiou  of  Chrilt,  and  arezealous  for  bim.
This  icalouſie  is  twofold,  Pretended  realouſir,  and  true  iealoufre,  Pre
tended  wealoufie  yis,  hen  men  +  pg  the  loue  ofthe  Charch
for  Chriſtes  ſake.  Thus  Pau!  ſaith
,  They  are  tealons,  that  is,they
pretend  a  louevnto  youfor  Chriltes  ſake,  but  indeed  they  doe  it  iv  |  19
followes,  They  wonld  exclude  you  ,  namely,
amſſe.  And  thereaſon
from  loving  of  me.  Odncndethewend  thanbey  would  ex.
clude  aus,
vs  :  thedifferenceia
the  originall
is  onely  in  oneletter:
and  theſenſe  is  the  ſame,that  thefalſe  apoſtles  would  exclude  Pax/
from  theloueof  the  Galatians,that
they  onely  might  bee  honov-  15
red  and  loued.
It  is
good)  Theſe  words  may  be  vnderſlood,
either  of  the  Gals-/
tians,or
of  Pa.  |  rather  chooſeto
apply  them  to  P  ««/,  that  for  ie-
louſic  he  may  make  an  oppoſition  betweene  himſelfe  and  the  falſe
teachers.  Theſenſeis
this  :  that  icaloulic  isa  goodthing,if  ic  bein  1»
a  good  caule;  that  is,ifit  be  indeed  for  Chriſts  ake,and
bealwayes
theſame.  And  Pa»/addes  further,that
this  kindeof  ieloulic  is  in
himſelfe
:  becauſe  heis  ielous  over  the  Galatians  not  only when  he
is  preſent  with  them,but  alſo  when  be  is  abſent\:and  this  he  turther
confirmes  inthe  two  next  verſes,
=;
Theſcope.
In  theſe  words,  Paw!  mects  with  a  conceit
of  the
Galatians:  for  they  might  haply  ſay,thatcheir
new  teachers  loued
them  exceedingly
,and  werezealous
for  theirſaluation.  Pas/rher-
tens  ano
Ion  ielous  ouer
it  is  amiſſe  :  nay,jieloulie  for  you  is  good,  The  firlt  part
of
[15
pariſon  isinthe  17.verſe,the  ſecond  io  the  18.
Thevſe,  When  Paw!  faith,  that  the  falſe
apoſtles  were  icalous
cnn  Conlon  Ie  ſets  ont  _—  ion
of  men  inthe
world,which.is
to
eg  8  which  arc
intcheir
ki
to
doe  them  for  wrong  ends.  Itis  an  mm  to  preach  the  35  |  5
word,  bathmedos  it  of
enuy  and  contention,  Phw.1.  15.
others
make  merchandiſe
of  the  word.
It 1s  an  excellent  thing  toimbrace
the  Goſpel:  and  yet  many  men  doe
it  amille  for  feare,  or  for ho-
nour,or
for  profit,  or  for  other  liniſter
reſpeR,  andnot
Gol
ſpels  ſake,
Thistem
life
is  ad  excellent  thing,  yet  tew  there  ##'  |  4
are  that  know
the  endeof  this  life.  For men  commonly
ſpendnot
their  time  to  ſeeke  the  kingdome
of  heayen,  and  to  ma
craing
