---
page: 305
pdf_page: 327
sortable_pagination_id: "305"
---
the  Epiftle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.
4.
3'y
Now  then  we  areto  hold  the  church  of  Rome  as  a  ſtepmother,
pay,as
profelled  harlot  :
ſheeis  no  mother  of  ours.  FortheL  ord
ſaith,
Gone  out  of  ber  my  people;Renel.  18,  Let  ys  thereforecame  to
TheCatholike  Church  our  Mother;jis  to  bee  ſought  for,and  to
be  foundin  thetrue  vilible  Churches,the  certaine  markes  whereof
are  three.  The  preaching
of  the  word  of  God,out  of  the  writings
ofthe  Prophets  and  Apoltleg,with
obedience,  /ob.  10.28.
Epb.3,20
T  rae  ipugcation  af  God  the  Father,in  the  ondy  name  of
by
10  che  aſſiſtance  of  the  Spirit,  42.  9,14.  1.Cor.  122
Theright
viugt
the
Sacrarments,Bapti
the  Lords  Supper,  Afar.  2  8.  1Þ  And  by
the  true  Churchof
God
in  England,  Ireland,
Scotland,Germany,France,&c.
(>
Church  is  calledour
Mother,  the  Papiſt  ga-
__  Againe,in
that  the
.hercommandementamgiibee  obeyed,Prex.  1.8.  and
pharn  berganantnduptmatatBbacheyadFhen,1.3-  nnd
Cent  theferandeh
of  the  Church\:Butl  anſwer,
that
thepreceptsof
the
and the  mother  mult  bee  one:  and
then  the  mother
mult  be  obeyed.
30,  The  Church  is  called  the  mother
of  w:  al,  thatis,of  all  true  belce-
vers,  Hence  it  followes,that
wicked  men  arenot  members
of  the
Catholike  Church,{(as  Popiſh  doRors  erronioully  teach)  forthen
the  Church  ſhall  bee  a  mother,
noe  oncly  to
theckiilrenof  God,
butalſoto
the  children  of  the  digell.
35  Laſtly,iathatthe  Church  is  our  mother,
we  zre  taught  that  wee
malt  deſpiſeourfirſt
birth,  aod  ſecke  tabe  borne  againe  voto  God,
and{uck  the.  bre(t  of  our  mother,feeding  on  the
milke  of  the  word,
Pſal.45.1  1.1.Pet.2.2.
Thus tobe  borne
a  member  of  thenew  leru»
lalemyis  a
great  priuiledge,P/al.87.5-Kenel,3.12.
27  For  it  is  written,  Reiozee  thos  barren  that  beareſt  no  chil-
dren,  breake
and  crie_  thou that  tranelle#t  not:  for  the
deſoluze  hath  many  more  children,  then ſhee  which  hath  an  huſ-
35
_..  Theſewords
arethe  telimony  of  the  Prophet
1/.c.54.1.a0d
thez  are  brought  toproue
that  which  Pa«/faidin  the  former  verlc,
that  the  (atbobkg  Chrurch
is  the  mother  of  ws  all,  that  is;  not  onely  of
the  lewes,but  of
all  belecuing  Gentiles.
©  Tanthewords,l  coolider  thepreface  to  the  Teſtimonie,  andthe
Teſtimony  it  ſelfe.  The  Preface,  It  «  written  :
where  two  points
areta  bee  conſidered.  The  ficlt  is,  _  faith,  It  i  written?  An  =_
AX  3
