---
page: 306
pdf_page: 328
sortable_pagination_id: "306"
---
A  Commentarie  pou
Chap.4-
The  Apollle  Paw/,whoſcauthoritte  was  divine;  and  infallible,
be.
na  God,
cauſehe
was  led  iptoall  trueth  by  |
fo  as  hecould
not  errein  delivering  doReine  torhe
And
yet  forall  this
hee  followesthe  rule  of  the  written  word.  And  his  manner  was
ſoto  doe,  Aﬀes  25.12.  This  ſhewes  the  ſhamelefle  impudencie  $
of  the  Church  of  Rome,  which  takes  toit  (cite  an  abſolute
of  ivdgement  in  all  matters,  without,and  belide
the  Scripture,
yea,  a  power  to  iudge  of  the  Scripture
it  lelte,  and
of  the  ſenſe
thereof,  without  thehelpe  of  Seripture,  vpou  a  ſuppoledintallible
aſliſtance
of  the  Spirits
1  0000%)
+.)  '  +10  3)
2  1:94
5977
1h
20
T  heſecond  point
is,  In  what  queſtion  faith  Pawl,  It  is  writes?
An/wer.  ln  a  controverlie  betweene  bim  and  the  falſe  A
of  a  ſinner.  T  his  ſhewesthat
touching  the  ivſtification
the  Serip-
ture'it  (clfeisthe  meabes  to\:determine
and-  decide  controverſies.
Ther  was  for  this
;  intheold  Teſtament;
thelivelyvoyce  jg
of  Godvtteredin
racleat  the  Merciefeate
:  but  in  the  new
Teltament  there
is  do  ſuch  voyce
of  God,  but  the  written  word
*  is  in  lead  thereof,  totheende
of  the  world,  And  therefore
Paul
faitb,/t  &  written.
Ty  4
-  In  tbe  Tcltimonie  I  confiderthree
things,  the  condition  of  ®
a6  Churches,  thechangeot
the  conditioo,  the ioy  that
is  vpou
T  he  condition  of  the  Church  of  the new  Teftament,
in  theſe
words,  Barren  that  beareſt  nochildrn  ;  thou  that  tranelleFF
not:  the
Barres)  The  Chriftian  Chorchiis  fo  called,  becavſe  by  thever
twe and  ſirength  of  nature,  is  beares  no  children  to  God,  notmore
then  Sera  did  to  Abrabaw,/obs  1.13,  1.  Cor.3.7;  Secondly;itislo
called  in  reſpeR  ofthe
begi
therot,  when  the  lewiſh  Church
was  yet  (andiog,
till  the
ſpirit
of  God  was  powred  foorth  ypoodll  Þ
themwhi  Coomapgton  Gnlaeateg  facet  rihecin
Chriſt
hi
copplaingde
ed,  that
beſt  enthu  firengthhin
wave,
l/a.
'  1,  Thirdly,itisfo
called
inre;
re  yt  Sat  5
were
io  which  Chriſt  ſhall  ſcarcefinde  faith  vpon  the  earth,  Luke  18.8.3f
Further,thatche  rene  bnet  mr
is  declared  by  the  ſigne,
bs
——
9  nor  Beares,”!  *  20  wry
Þ  efolat]thativ,wit
batd
io
appearance.  by  reaſop'
of
the  crolſe  and  afflition,and  without  children  :  debate
the  Chriſtian  Church  wa#conſtrained  to  hide
her  ſelfe  in
thewih  #
dernelſe,Renel.  12.14.  It  tmay  beedemanded  boy  the  Catholike
Church
ſhould  be  deſolate?  Aufwer.  T  he  eftate  of  the  Church  is
£190.
