---
page: 285
pdf_page: 307
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap.4-
293
This  iclouſic
in  the  Mioiflers  muſt  teach  all  faithful!  ferndnits
of  God;that  they  keepe  themſelves  as  pore  virgins
vr  Chrill,and
ſet  their  hearts  on  nothiog  inthe  world,  but  or  fitm,”  Theretors
they  muft  hunger  after  Chriſt:  they  mult  accountallthings  dung
;|
forbim:  they  muſt haue  their  converſation  in  heaven  with  hirn  ;
f  andloue
ts  comming  vato  them  by  death,P/4/,45  16,  Copttari-
"|
vwviſcthey  that  ſet  theirhearts  0o/  any  other  thibg  belide  hin,  are
faidro  goe  4  whormng  from  hum,and  therfotethey  treaccurſed;P/al.7  3.
'#
27,  Thus  many  Proteſtznts  doe  intheir  practiſe,  whatſoryerrbe
profefſe.  Thus  doth  the  Church  of  Romeborh  in  word  and  deed.
belide  Chrill  flie  bath  many  otherJotery;  and  ſhe  goes  a  who-
1»  aftet  them  when  ſhee  worſhips
Atigek
and  Saints,  the  ifnages
CE  dend  Chrillwith  rdigiops
woiſhep?
Againe,  by  thiswe  are  put  in  mipdetogteld  an  voinerfall  ſub-
14ie&ionto  Chrilt  :
ſorthis  isthedutieof  the  eſpouſed  wifeto  her
|  Laſtly,  that  good  thingsrhay  be  well  Yone,  good  endstriuſt  hee
ed  +  and  wewuſt  beconſtant  in  thegoud  which
we  doe.
And  thys  P  aw!  fa  #  is  pordro  bevealons.”  *
FF
Frog
little  children,  of  whore  /  trancll  in  birth  againe;tull
Chriſt  be  formed
in  you:
126clt
an  gieg  We
20  1\:weuld  1:  were  now  withyou,  that-]-mnight  change  my
:  u  voice:  fot  am  in  feare
of  you.
Pan{hath
ſaid  before,that
b1  1ealowſie  owerthe  Galitiens
was  good  :
it
wasin  a  goadcavle,  and  it  waycouftant,n6t  oplyin  bis
evenmhis  abſence  :  ard  this  he  declareshere  brfnp
mes:
bis  loue  now  in  hisabſcnce,ipthe  1
9.  verle,'and
his
defire
jo
Cp
ab
intheſecond  verſe.
_  Theword,  we,  tranflated,
rranell  vm  birth,  Ggnibes  not  onely
'#
the  traucllof  the  woman  at  tbe  birth  of  the  childe,  -  bot  at&  the
bearing  thereot,  before  the  birth,  Andthe  wordes
haue
pimogeof  Chrilt  defaced  by  the  falie  apoliles,  bee  onc
nddand  refloreds,  /
1-111
2)  >  rn  I
3's}  SARI
-ln\:thele  words  (my  (tle  children)  Pact  tak
WW  Birn  the  condi”
bo
tion
