---
page: 308
pdf_page: 330
sortable_pagination_id: "308"
---
Chap.4+
A  Commentaric  van
The  ſecond  point  is  the  change
of  che  Church  of  the  newe
Teſtament,  becauſeſhe  ſhallceafeto
be  barren,  and  bring  forth
many  children..  T  his  is  the  promiſe  of  God  :  and  herevpon  Pau/
concludes,  that  the  Church  is  a  Mother  of
all  belecucrs,  |
both
lewesand  Gentiles,  Obſerue,tbat  the  promile  of  God  is  of  ipfnite  g
vertuein  his  time  and  place,  [n  the  beginning
God  ſaid,  Ler  there  be
this  or  that,  and  it  was  ſo,  Of  likevertue  is  Gods  promile,  if  we  can
waite  his  leiſure,  God  promiſed  that  after  4;  0.yeares,  the  Iſraelites
ſhould  be  delivered  out  of  Egypt;preſeptly  when  the  time  was  ex-
pired,  nothing  could  hinder  the  promiſe.  Reade  Exod.  22,  41,  yy
©  herefore  our  duty  isp0  reſt  on  Gods  promiles  in  alltimes,  both
in  liteand  death.
T  be  third  point  is  the  ioy  vpon
the  change.  Revozce,  Hereare
two  things  to  be  conlidered,  T
he  firſt,  who  mult  reioyce?  Anſo,
T  he  Church.Gods  kiongdome  is  the  place  of  joy.  Row.  14.17.  Re-  1
ioycing  belongs  to  the  people  of  God;  Pſal.68.3.&  106.  5,  The
mulicke  of  the  T  emple  was  typicall,  and  figured  the  ioy  ofthe  Ca-
tholike  Church,where  i  thea(lurance  of  remiſſion  of  linnes,  and
Llecternall.
T  he  ſecond  point  is,  in  what  mult  the  Church  reioyce?  Af.  14
Inthe  redemption  of  Chriſt  and  thefruit  thereof,  the  converſion
of  ſinners  to  God.  For  the  prophet  had  ſhewed  at  large  the  paſſion
and  ſufferings  of  Chrilt://#,5  3.and  bercupon  he  ſaith,  Royce  rhes
barren,  T  be  l{raclites  were  commanded  to  fealt  and  to  be  mer-
ry  tefore  the  Lord,  Lewnt.2  3.40.1  Chren,  25.  32.  that  is,  before  the  15
Lords  Arke  ,  which  was  the  pledge  of  his  preſence.  |
Now  this
Arke  was  a  figure  of  Chri(lt:  and
the  myrth  before  the  Arke,
ſignifice.that
the  foundation  of  all  our  ioy  lies  in  our  Reconciliati
on  with  God  in  Chriſt.  T  he  angels  io  heaucn  greatly  reioy  ceatthe
conuerlion  of  a  (inner  :  andat  thereturne  of  the  prodigall  ſong,  36
the  tet  calfcis  killed,
T  he  vle.  Jtisfalſethat  religion  breeds  Melancholy,  and  cutsoff
all  mirch,  It  doeth  not  2boliſh  mirth,  but  recifie-it\:oay  it  briogs
men  totrueand  pcriect  ivy,
Oue  6r(t  and  principall  ioy  mult  be,that  we  are  in  Gods  favour,  35
reconciled  to  God  by  Chrilt,  Lak,  10.20  la  Dawid,the  head  of  his
top,  was  the  good  eſtate  of  che  Church,P/ab137.5.  Andall  other
petty  ioyes  mult  flow  from  this,and  be  ſutgbletoir.
14
Breake  {corth  (his  Gignibestbat  the  Church  vpon  earth  is(asit
were)pent  in  with
preſent:  griefe,  |Our  ioy  in  this  life  is  mixed  ©
with  Gon  Thaahballlambe  was  catcn  with  /owre  hearbesy  10
figaitic,  that  we  teele  nofweetnelle  ia  the  blood  of  Chnft,-till
we
