---
page: 287
pdf_page: 309
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap.4-
andplace  for  a  ſecond  repentance.  We  muſt  forgias  till  [canenty  ſea-
nentimer;  Mat.  18.22.  Much  morewill  God  doe  it.  The  parable  of
theprodigall  Sonne  ſhewes,  that  they  which  fallfrom  God  after
their  calling  and  firit  conuerlion  ,  may  againe  by  new  repentance
5  berecoucred,
An  obieQion  :  Pex;  ſecond  trauell  preſuppoſetha  ſecond  rege-.
neration  inthe  Galatians  2  and  it  they  ace  borne  againetheſecond
time,thenio  their  Apoltaliethey  tell  wholly  trom  God.  A»/.  When
Pax!  (aithy{  trevell  agamezhe  doth  not  preſuppole  any  ſecond  Spiri-
19  tuall  generation  :  tor  thechild  of  God  is  but  once  begotten  to  the
Lord,and  Pal  herecalls  the  Galatians
,  /utle  ch1/dren,  becauſe  even
inthetime  of  their  fall,  the  ſeede  of  God  (ll  remained  in  their
hearts.  And  becauſethe  image  of  Chrilt  was  againe  to  be  refor=
med  and  reſtored  ia  the  Galatians,in  this  reſpect  he  ſaith,  /  rrawell
Is
jgare
with
you.
ET  heengof  Pax/rminiſteryisexpreſſed  in  the  words,  till  Chrif
_—_  I"  _=_
:  that  is,  till(as  it  were)the  counterfeit  or  image  of
ſt.be
(tamped  and  imprinted  in  your  hearts.  This  image
bath  ewo  parts.  The  firſt
is,  a  Right  knowledge  of  Chriſt  in  re-
toſpect
of  his  natures  and  offices,  as  they  are  ſer  torth  in  the  word,
his  knowledge  was  defaced  in  the  Galatians,when  they  ioyned
workes  with  Chriſt  :  for  then  they  made  him  to  be  an  imperfet
Sagiour.  The  ſecond  part  of  this  image,  is  a  Conformity  with
Chriſt.Rom.  8.29.  It  istwofold,conformure  i  quality,and  conformutic
v5  mprathſe.
Conformity  in  RP  twofold.
The  firltis  a  Conformitieto
the  death  of  Chriſt,  w
e  vertue  thereofworksinvsa  death  of
finne;and  when  we  ſuffer  as  Chriſt  ſuffered,in  (ilence,  contentati-
en,obedience,  ſubieRing  our  ſelues  to  the  will  of  God.  T  he  ſecond
30  19,4
ty
to  the  reſurrettion
or  life  of  Chriſt,  and  that  is,  when  we
livenot  onely
a  naturall,  but  alſo  a  Spirituall  lite,  which  is  to  ſub-
mitourſelacsto  beruled  bythe  word  and  Spirit  of  Chriſt.
Confarmity  in  pratti/e  s,orhen  we  carry  our  (elues  as  Prophets  in
'  theconfeſlion  of  the  name  of  Chrilt,  inteaching,  exhorting,  and
$5  admoniſhing  one  another  :  as  Prieſts  to  offer  our  boctesand  ſoules
infacrifice  to  God:  as  Spirituall  Kings,bearivg  (way  ouer  thelults
and  corruptions  of  our  owne  hearts,  And  thus  is  Chrilt  to  be  tra-
medinthe  hearts  of  men.
The  vſe.Here
we  ſee,  the  end  of  all  preaching,  is  to  make  (inne-
©  fallmen  to  become  new  creatures,  like  vnto  Chrill  :  this  is  the
"I
drift
of
the  Miniſtery
:  and  the  doQrine  that  tends  to  this  purpole,
is
ſound  and  wholeſome.
Azaine,
