---
page: 31
pdf_page: 53
sortable_pagination_id: "31"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.1.
41
fies,that  all  our
c,and  all  our  dexteritie,  to  thisor  that  of-
ficezis  mecrely
God:  becauſe  we  areſanfihed,dedicated,and
ſetapart  inthe  counſell  of  God,from  all  etervitie,&therfore
from
the  wombe,  or  from  our  firſt  conception  &  beginning,  The  third
5  Cauſeis,vocation  by  graceztheaccompliſhment  of
boththe  former
in  the  time  which  God  hath  appointed.  T
be  ſeccnd  thing  is,  the
manner
or  forme  of  Paw/:  vocation,  in  theſe  words  to  reneale  his
Somme  to  mee.)  T  he  third  isthe  end  of  bis  vocation,  to  preach  Chriit
among  the  Gentiles,  Thelalt  is,  his  obedienceto  the  calling  of  God,
zo  inthe  16.  and  15,  verſes,
To  begin  with  the  efficient  cauſes  of  Pat  converſion  :  heere
weſce  the  order  and  dependanceof  caules,  in  theconuerſion  and
ſalvation
of  every  ſinner.  The  begioving  of  our  ſalvation,  is  in
the  good  pleaſure
of  God  :  then
followes
ſeparation,or  eleion  to
x5  Eternalllite  :  then  vocation  by  the  word  &  Spirit:  then  obedience
tothe  calling
of  God,  and  after  obedience,  everlaſting  lite.  T  his
order  Paw!  hereſets  downe,and  theconſideration  of  it,  is  of  great
vie.  Hence  it  appeares  to  be  a  doQrineerronivus,which  beginsour
faluation  in  thepreviſion  of  mans  faith  and  good  workes.  For  in
Pauls  order,workes  haue  the  [aſtplace.  And  it  muſt  be  Godsplea-
ſure,;that  man  ſhall  doea  good  worke  before  he  can  doeit,  Andif
ſeparation  to  eternall  life,  ſhould  be  according  to  faith,  or  workes,
then  we  ſhould  makeſeparation  of  our  ſelues,
as  wellas  God.  And
vocation  isnot  for  CONS  that  we
might  doe  >  Sn  ys
25
1.4.  Secondly,by  this
order  it  appeares,that
the
faluationofthem
4  that  belecue,  is  rr  ſure  then  the  whole  frame  of  heaven  and
earth  :  becauſe  it  is  founded  in  the  vocation  of  God,which  is  with-
out  repentance,  inthecounſelt  of  ſeparation,  and  in  thepleafure
of  God,  Thirdly,  by  obſeruing
well  this  order,  we  may  attaine  to
;6  theaſſurance  of  our  elefion.
For  if  thou  halt  bin  called,and  halt
in  truth  anſwered  to  the  calling  of  God  by  obedience,  thou  maeſt
allure  thy  (elfe  ofthy  ſeparation  from  the  womb  to  euerlalting  lite,
becauſe  this  orderis  (as  it  were)  a  golden  chaine,  in  which,  allthe
linkes  are  inſeparably  vnited,  Lattly,  the  conſideration  of  this
35  order,ſerues  to  mortitie  the  pride  and  arrogancie  of  our  hearts,in
that  it  aſcribes  allto  God,  and  nothing  to  man  inthe  cavle  of  (al.
nation,  Reade  Ezezch.16  63,
Wing
WW
YE
CE
TT
TOR
——
Againe,
by  the  conſideration  of  theſe  3,  cauſes,  wee  gather  that
God  hath  determined  what  hewill  doe  with  every  man,  and  that
40  he  hath  in  his  eternal!  counſel!  a(ligned  every  man  his  oftice  and
condition  of  life.  For  there  isin  God  a  plealure,  wh\:reby  he  may
doe  with  every  man  what  hee  will.  And  by  his  eternall  couofell
D  2
hce
