---
page: 288
pdf_page: 310
---
Chap.4-
A  Commentarie
upon
396
Agaioe,  here  weſce,that  in  the new  Tefament,thereis  but one
rule
and  order  for  all  men,and  that  isthe  rule  of  Chrift,7ake  vp
croſſe  and  fellow  me  :  and  tor  this  caulethe  Miniſlery  ferues  toframe
Chriſt  i  the  hearts  of  all  beleeuers  :  Therefore  the  ſeucrall  rules
and  orders  of  Monks  and  Friars  in  the  Church  of  Rame,are  meere  5.
ſuperltitiops.
Furthermore,  Perl  here  makes  two  degrees  of  Gods  childreny
one  is,when  they  are  begotte  of  God,  &  Gheil  is  formediothem,
T  he  ſecoud  is,when  they  are  begotten  of  God,  yet  ſo,as  they  arg
as  yet  voformed,  Such  were  the  Apoſtles  when  they  coofelled  4;
Chriſt  co  bee  the  Sonne  of
the  living  God,  4arh.  16..  tor  theg
they  knew  not  the  article  of  Chriits  death,  reſurrection,  aſcenſion;
at  thet  time,nor  the  mannerof  his  kingdome.
Of  this  ſort  was  Rs.
hab,  when  ſhe  received  the  ſpies,  Heb.  1  1,for  then  ſhe  was  not  infor-
med  ia  the  religion  ofthe  lewes,but  oply  acknowledged  the  God  ig
of  Iſrael
to  bethe  true  God and had  a
reſolution  to  ioyne
her  (elſe
to  the  people
of  God.  Ofthis  ſort  were  the  Cormebiznc  at  the  fir};
For  they  were  carnall  more  then  ſpirituall,cuven  babesin  Chritha,
Cor.3.3.T  hismult  teachvs,  where  weſceany  good  thing  in  men,
tocheriſhit.For  though  as  yet  they  be  not  Chriltians  formed,  yet  j,
they  may  be  Chriſtians
in
forming,
verſion  ofa  (inner  isnot  wrought  in  one  moment,  but  _
and  little,in  proceſle  of  time.
|n  the  generation  ofinfants,frld
the
braine,  heart,  and  lier  are  framed:
then  the  bones,  veines,  1
teries,nerues,  membranes:  andafter  this,  leſhis  added.  And  the
infant  feſt  begins  to  live  the
life  of  plat,  by  growing  andoow-
riſing:  then  it  Iivesthe
life  of  a
bealt,  by  Hendon
thirdly;the  life
of  manyby  theyſe  ofreaſon.Even  ſo  God  outwad-
ly  preuents  vs  with  his  word.  andinwardly  he  puts  into  vs  koow-
ledge  of  his  wil,  with  the  beginniogs  or  feeds  of  faith  and
tance,as  it  were  a  braine  anda  heart\:from  theſe  beginnings
oftai
and  repentance,ariſe  heavenly  delires\:from  theſe  delires  followes
aſking.ſeekiog,  knocking\:and  thus  the  beginnings
of  faith  areits
crealed,and
men goe  on  trom  grace  to  grace,  ll
they  be  tall
me  is
in  Chrilt,  And  for  this  cauſe,  we  mult  with  coaltancy  vie  the  good
meanes,in  hearing\:reading;  praying,
Laſtly,  weare  all  here  put  io  minde  to  Nuff,  and  tovſe  all
good  meanes,that  we  may  belike  to  Chriſt,  ſpecially  in  the  diſpo-
lition  of  the  inward  man.  Fhere  is  aſpirituall  madnes  in  the  minds  ©  }  «
cf  many  men:  they  thinke  of  nothing
bur  of  the  faſhion  of  their
apparel],  and  of  the  trimmipg  ot  their  bodies  :  but  let  vs  _
