---
page: 289
pdf_page: 311
---
the  Epiſie
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.
4.
297
howto  a  the  gracious  image  of  Chciſt  in  our  hearts  :  thus
ſhall  we  be  lovely  ,avd  hauefauour  in  the  eyes  ofGod.
Thus  much  of  Pa1loue\:now  follows  his  delirein  the  20.  verſe.
In  which  |  con(ider  threethings\:the  delire  it  ſelfe,/  would  1  were
s  with  younow\:the  end  of  his  dehreybat  /  mug
ht  change  my  vorce;the  oc-
caliog  thereof,  for  /
amin  doubt  of  you.
When  Paul(aigh,  I  would  |  were  with  you  now,he  (hewes,  that
the  preſenceot  Paltuurs  with  their  people,isa  thing  molt  nece(la-
And  there  are  two  reaſons  thereo*.  Oneis,  to  pregent  [pirituall
10
ers,  which  are  manituld  and  continuall,  ia  that  the  divell
ſerkes  continually  whome  be  may  denonre  ©  and  we  fight  againſt  princi-
palities
and.  powers  in  beanenty  thimgs,  In  this  relpeR  Paltours  are
called  watchwen,  and  —  ,  the  preſence  of  Pa-
ſtours  with thar  people,  ſeruestoredreſlſethings  amifle,and  to  re-
15  couerthem  that  be  in  Apo'talie;  28Pax/laith  in  this  place.  Ther-
fore  it  were  to  be  wiſhed  that  this  mind  of  Pas  were  in  all  Paltors,
that  with  one  conſentthey  might  lay  to  their  people,/  would  [were
mih  you  now.
_  lathe  words,  F\:bar  [  might  change  my  vaice]  Paxlcontinues  the
zoallulion(  which  he  made  io  che  former  verie)  to  a  woman  wich
child  \:and  hereby  be  (ignifiesewo  things,  The  firit  is,that
be  will
leauefurther  diſputing  with  the  Galatians,  and  fallto  lamentiog
,  andcrying,as  mothers  doein  the  time  of  their  crauell,  by  reaſon  of
their  paine.  This  is  tochange  the  voice.  It  wasthe  manerof  Pas/
25  toabaſehimſelfe,andro  mourne  for  the  (linnes  of  others,2.C
or.  12,
24.  and  hee  reprooues  the  Coriathians,that  they  were  putt<d  vp,
and  didnot  mourne  for  theinceltuous  perſon.  Like  was  the  practiſe
of  Dexid,P/al.119.136.  of  Lot,z,Pet.2.7.  of  lerenne,  Lam.  2-11.  0f
thefriends  of  /95/04.2.1a(t.  of  thegodly  in  the  daies  of  Ezechrel,  c.
20  94  of  Chriſtioreſpet  of  lerulalem,Loky  r  9  41.  And  ithath  bin
alwayesthe  practiſe  of  holy  men,  whea  there  was  no  other  helpe,
with  teares  to  commend  thecale  to  God,
If  forrow  for  other  mens  offences  make  Pau!  change  his  voice,
much  more  are  men  todoeit  tor  their  owne.  Perer  ,10  his  repen-
I*tanceletr  his  preſumptuous  ſpeaking,
and  fell  to  bitter  and  ſecret
teares:  andſo  did  the  woman  that  (tood  at  the  feet  of  Chriit  wee-
-  ping,  and  waſhed  his  feet  with  ber  teares,  L»k:7  $3.  The  like
ought  wee  to  doe  for  our  offences  and  (linnes.
|  he  earth  quaxe
this  Winter  palt,  mult  lirre  vs  vp  to  this  dutie.  For  it  182  raatter
|  40  fullof  terrour,  1.  Semwel  14.15.  and  the  lickne(ſe  which  hathtaken
holdof  thouſands  as  a  gentle  warning  mult  beereſpeted.  And  it
mult  bee  conlidered,  that  the  changes  of  the  great  world  bring
V  2
Wit
