---
page: 313
pdf_page: 335
sortable_pagination_id: "313"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galathians.
Chap.  5,
CHAP.
V.
1  Stand  faſt  therefore  in  the  hbertie  wherewith  Chriit  hath
5  made  v1  free,c7  be  not  intangled  again  with  the  yoke  of  bondage.
;  Heſe  words  are  a  repetition  of  the  principal
”  concluſion  ofthe  whole  Epiſtle.  Which  was
Y)  on  this  manner:
I  Pas/  am  called  to  teach,
#*  and  my  doctrine  is  true:  therefore  yee  did
,  ”
19
99
euill  co  depart  from  it,  and  yourdutie  was  to
Pl
9  have  ſtood  vatoir.
Further,they  arecolleed  and  inferred  vp-
on  theconcluſion  of  the  laſt  argument  vſed
1;  inthe  laſt  chapter,thus  :  Yee  are  children  of  the  free  woman  :  and
thertore  ye  are  free  :
and  therefore  ye  ſhould  bold  faſt  your  libertie.
lothewords,  two  maine  points  of  doatrine  are  propounded.
The  firſt
is,  that  by  nature  wee  are  all  intangled  with  the  yoke  of
boadage.  For  the  better  conceiving
of  this,  I  will  handle  three
16  points;the  nature
of  this  bondage,the  ligne  of  it,and  the  vie,
Touching  thenatureof  it,  Our  ſpirituall  boudage  (tands  in
three  things.  The  firlt,is  bondage  voder  ſinne,  which  Pax  teach-
eh  when  he  faith,  /  awcarzall  +14  under  rone,Romanes  7.13.  Heere
remember,that  by  (inne,  is  meant  originall  Gone,  which  hath  ewo
zz  parts  :  Guiltine(ſein  the  firſt  offence  of  Adam,  which  is  imputed
toallmankindey  and  the  diſpoſition  of  all  the  pow  ers  of  the  ſoule
to  allmannerof  evill  whatſoever.  And  thisrebellious  diſpolition
islike  a  leproſic  infeting  the  wholeman  :  and  it  reignes  like  aty-
|  rant  over  the  ſoule  of  may,  by  temptiog,intiling,
and  drawing
him  from  one  actuall  finne  to  another,  ſo  as  bee  can  doe  nothing
but  ſinne,  [ewes  1.14,
Theſecondthing,is  obligation  or  ſubieion  to  all  puniſhment
both  temporall  and  eterpall.
And  it  hath  three  parts.  Thefirlt  is,
Bondage  vnder  Satan,who  keepes  vorepentant  (inners  in  his  ſnare
15  «cording  to  bigowne  will,  2.7  un.  2.26,  hee  rules  in  their  hearts  like  2
God,2.Cor.4.4\:and  hath  powerto  blind  them,  and  to  harden  their
hearts,tillbe  have  brought  them  toeternalldeath.Heb.  2.14.  The
ſecondis,  bondage  vnder  an  evil  conſcience,which  litsinthe  hearts
of  offendours  as  an  accuſer  and  a  terrible  ludge,  and  lies  like  a
©  wilde  beaſt  at  a  mans  doore,ready  cuer  and  anonto  plucke  out  his
throat,Gen.4.7,  The  third  is,  bondage  vnder  the  wrath  of  God,and
thefeare
of  eternall  death,  Heb.2.1  5,  .
The
