---
page: 292
pdf_page: 314
---
pon.
A  Commentarie
300
Chap.4.
gaine  to  bis  former  doftine  touching  the  juſtification  of  a  ſinner
by  faith,  without  the  workes  of  the  law  :  and  he  confirmes  it  by an
ether  argument,the  ſumme  and  ſubſtance  whereof  is  this  :  Your
libertie  from  the  law  ,  was  prefigured  io  the  family  of  Abrabam;
thcreforeFe  are  not  bondmento  -rr—e  -—  men,
heargument  isat  large  propounded,aodit
hatbfoure
parts:  a
ccforde  21,verſe:  =
hiſtory  of  Abraham  and  his  Fay,  ver
22,23.the  application
of  the  biſtory  from  the  24  verſe  to  the  zo,
the  conclulion,verle  31,
And  firſt  ofthe  Preface,  Lav]theword  (4aw)  in  the  firſt  places  1
taken  properly  forthe  moral  and  ceremoniall  law  of  2/ofes:  andin
theſecondplacesfor  the  books  of  Hoſcr,and  namely,
for  the  booke
of  Geneſis.  And  inthis  ſenſe  the  word  is  taken,when  Chriſtis  ſaid
to  expend  the  Law  and  the  Prophets,
Lake  24.  And  ſumetimeit  ligni-
fies  all  the  bookes  of  the  old  Tefiament,/obu  15.15.
IF
F  nder  the  law]to  be  vnder  the  lawzisto  hold  our  ſelues  boundto
the  fulfilling  of  tbe  law;  and  ta  lookefor  hfe  cternall  thereby.
Doe
ye  not  heave
the  law  7
hat
is,  ye  reade  and  hearein
deed,  but
ye  vndectand  not  the  ſcope  avd  dritt  of  that  which.youreade.
In  this  Freface,  firſt  Paw/  mcetes  with:  the  pride  of  mansnw  16
ture,  whereby  the  Galatians  went  about  to  eſtabliſh  their  owne
rightcouſnetle  by  the  law,  when  hee  faith,  Tee  that  will  bee  vader  the
law,  G'.  With  this  pride  were  the  [ewes  tainted  ,  Komanes  10,  4,
aud  the  young  Princethat  came  to  Chil,  Jod
ſaid,  Good  maſter,
what  mait  [  doe  10  befaned  ?  And  the  Papilts  of  our  time,  whowill  1
pot  bee  ſubieR  to  theiultice  of  God,  but  ſet  vptheir  owne  iultice
in  the  keeping  of  the  law,  The  like  doe  the  ignorant  peoples
mong  vs,  wha  hold  that  they  are  able  tofulfll  the  law,  and  that
they
are  tobeſaued  thereby.  And  when  they  fay,they  Jooke  to
be  ſaved  by  their  faith,  they  voderſtand  thereby  their  fidelitie,that
33,  theirgood  dealing.
Againe,P2a/  here  notes  the  ſervile  diſpolition  of  men  thatloues
rather  to  bein  bondage  vnder  the  law,then  to  bein  perfeR  liberty
voder  the  graceof  Gvd,  This  we  ſee  in  daily  experience,  All  pro-
felle  Chriſt  among  vs  :  etis  it  euena  death  ro  the  molt,to  forlake  35
the  bondage  of  the  fleſh.Chriſt  we  protelſe,yet  ſo  as  we  take  liber-
tic  to  live  atterthe  lufis  of  our  owne  hearts.
When  Pa«/  laith,  Doe  ye  not  beare  the  {ww  ?  hee  notes  the  cavuleof
our  ſpiricuall  pride,  and  of  the  ſervile  diſpolition  before  named,
namely.ignorance  in  miſtaking  and  miſconceiviog  the  true  ſcope  @
of  the
law  :  for  the  Galatians  did  rot  contider  that  Chrill  was  the
{cops  of  the  law,  but  they  foppoled  tbat  the  very  obſecyatioosf
