---
page: 293
pdf_page: 315
---
the  Epiſtle  ts  the  Galatians,
Chap.4-
391
the  law,  even  (incethe  fall  of  man,did  give  life  and  inftice;  This
ignorance  was  to  the  [ewesas  aveile  betore  their  eyes  in  the  rea-
ding  of  the  law,  2.  Corinthians  3,  14.  And  this  ignorance  hath
blindedthe  Papilt  at  this  day  :  for  he
ſuppoſeth  thatthe  Goſpel  is
nothing  elſe  but  thelaw  of  1Mo/e-:  nadthee  Chriſt  indeed  is  butan
inſtrament  to  make  vs  keepers  ofthe  law,  and  conſequently  Sa-
viours
of  our  ſelues.
lathe  hiſtory  of  Abraham  I  conſiderthree  thiogs,thefat  of  A-
brahaws  in  taking  two  wines  :  theeuent  vpon  this  ftaRhe  had  ews
ſannes  by  them  :  the  condition  of  theſe  ſonnes,
®   TouchingthefaQt  of  4brabawjitmay  bee  demaunided,  what  is
to  bee
judged
there
ground  to  the  anſiver  ſhall  beethis
that  marriage
£7  the  indim/ible  contunttion  of  one  man  and  one  woman  on-
This  Chriſt  of  purpoſe  teacheth,  /arth.16,  where
be  faith,that
created  them
at  the  firſt  man  and  woman,
and  not  women,v.4.  that
4  man  muſt  ferſake  father  and  mother,
and  cleane  ro  bis  wife,  not  tohis
wiues,v.s,  that  they  rwaine  ſpallbe  one  fleſs,v.5,  Andin  allthis  Chrilt
makes  no  newlawybut  onely  revives  the  firlt  ioſticotion.of  marri-
made  in  Paradiſe,  And  Afoſer  having  ſet  downe  this  digine  in-
Trotico,  addes  withall,  that  Lamechwas  the  firft-thatbrake  it,  by
20
ing  many  wives.
Now  then,  the  anſwer  tothe  ons  two-fold.  Some  fay,
that  Abr«bam  andtherelt  of  the  Patriarks  had  a  diſpenſation  from
Godto  marrie
wines  ,  and  therefore  that  it
was  no  linnein
25  them.  Ofthis
mindeare
ſundrie  learned  men,  both  Proteſtancs
and  Papiſts,  But  the  anfiver
is  only  conieRurall,
and  hath  ao  evi;
The  ſecond  anfwer  is,  that  God  did  not  approuethe  polygamie
ofthe  fathers,or  comumendit,  but  did  onely  tolerate  it,as  a  letſer  c-
29  vill  forthe  preventing
of  a
Lhis  tolleration  appeares,
in
that  God  commanded  that  the  king mwſt  not  multiply
bis  wines,
7?  ent.
17.17.  and  thatthechi
(though  ſhee  bethe  (e-
cond  wife,)if  it  beefirft  borne,fhallbethehgire;D  7.24.15.  The
occaſions  ofthistolleration  were  twa,  One  was,  adeliretn  the  Pa-
35  triarkes
to
multiply
their  poſterity,thatif  ic  were  polſible,the  Met-
lasmightdeſcend
of  theairline.
The  ſecond  was,the  common  cu-
ſome  of  men  inthe  Eaſt  countreyes,who  madeno  matter  of  it,ta
mitry  many  wives:
avd  common  cuſtorne  bred  a  commonerror,
.  andacommonerror  bred  common  ignorance,  wherby  that  which
4  wazindeed  afinne,was  elteemed
no  linne.
It  may  be  obice&ed;if  the  having  of  many  wives  were  an  of-
fence,that  Abraham  and  therelFdf  the  holy  Patriarches  livedand
V.  4
died
