---
page: 296
pdf_page: 318
---
Chap.  4-
A  Commentarie  pon
For  Agar  or  SinasJhere
the  trapſlatours
are  deceived,  fo
that  mount  Sinai  had  two  names,  Agr  and  Sine:  but  celepr
on  of  theirs  hath  ao  purges  the  words  are  thus  to  be  rea
ar  is  Smai,  Here  Apgar  ſigni
nifies  not  ſo  much  the  perſon  of  «4bre-
aw;  handmaid,  as
ich  is  laid  inthe  former  hiſtory  of  4ge,  5
For  the  words  are,  'aſzp.  And  Sinai  muſt  be  conlidered  asa
where  itpleaſed  God
to  publiſhthe  law,  And  the  words  thas  con-
ſidered,  haue  thisſenſe,  Aer  is  Sinas,that  is,  Agar  figures  Sinaitwo
he  Fin  congulen  place
Agar  wasa  gn  he
Sinai  =  >
relpe4
w,was  a
bondage  :
in
reſpe&
it  i*calledSinai  Act  JO  no  rem  of  the  land  of
Canaan,  Secondly,ine
;For  as
Agar
1/onoael
a  bondman
to  Abrabaw  ifo
Sinaior  thelaw,  makes  boodmen,  And  it  —_—
Sinai  anſwerethto  leroſalem,that  is,as  Ager  figures  Sinai  ;
ſo
Ago
6gures  lerulalem  :  and  by  this  meanes,  Sinai  and
gr  pear  ng  aff
ali  04  Gn
IR,  Now  Agar
ready
two  waies,in  condition,and  effeR.la  condition  :  as  Ager  wase
RE
qr
the  nation  ofthe  lewes
bag
>  7  Ip  gr
ence
lerufalem  by  teaching!
bondmen,  Therefore  Pal
Githintbe  ll
lis,
of  leruſalem,  And  feee  5s  in  bondage  with
bi
children.
The  vie.  Theſe  things  ave  ſaid  by  alle  o7  He  the
Papilts  makes
double  fenſe  of  ws.  one  /#erallthe  otber  /piricvall,  Literal  ig
twofold.  Proper,  when
wards  are  taken  in  their  proper  ſignifics
tion.Figuretiwe,when
the  holy  Gholt  lignifies  his  meaning  in  bor-
rowed  tearmes.
LAX
Spiritual  ſenſes
three  .  One  «legorical,
thiogsin  the  old  TH  applied  to  go
things  io  the
new  Teſtament.  The  ſecond;is7repologica/;zwhen  —_  ihes
ſomething  t
,  Thethirdyis  Anegogicat,when
arcin  Scripture
ro
ſignictheolatef  er
everlaſting  life,  Thus
[eraalem
y  is  a  citie:
leroy  neg
allegorie;the  Church  Gedoner
Teſtament:  in  atropologicall  ſenſe,  a  (tate  well  ordered  \:in  ao  #&  5
ogicallſenſe,the
eſtate  of  eternall  life,  Theſe  ſenſes  they  vic
to  applie  to  molt  placez  ofthe  Scripture,  ſpecially  to  the  hiſtorie,
But  |  ay  tothe
thereis
proper,an
in
to  overturnealſen
Gexchee  To:
make  maay  ſenſes  of  ſcriptures
threeTpirituall  ſenſes
2nd
ack
to  make  nothing  certen,  As  forthe
