---
page: 319
pdf_page: 341
sortable_pagination_id: "319"
---
the  Epiftletothe  Galathians,
—  Chap.
327
1.Cor.15.57.  Andaotto  bethanktullis  an  height  ofwickedoelle,
-  _,  Thetbirdpoint
is,  concerning  theperſunsto
whom  thisli
;  ab  oe
he  Fg
words,  Stand  yee  faſt;  bee  bath
——_
vs  free.  Whereby  Pas!  ſignifies  him(elte  and  the
Galatiavsthat
g.  delecvedin
Chriſt,  Beleeuers  then  are  the  perſons
to  whom  this
ebelong3,/e5n  1.1  2.1,7\:m,  4.3.  Andtruc  belccuers  arethus
diſcerned.  They  viethe  ordinary  meanes  of  grace  andfalua-
tion;theword,and  Sacraments:
in  thevie  of  themeanes,they  ex-
ercile  thernſeluesin  the  ſpiricual  exerciſes  of  invocation  and  repen-
$  taxce:  andia  theſeexercifesthey  bewaile  their  vabeleete,and  (triuc
by  allmeanesto  belecue  in  Chrilt.  As  for  them  that  conceiuea  pec-
{main  of  Gods  mercy  without  the  meancs  of  (aluation,and  with-
out  the  exerciſes
of  inuocation
and  repentance;
they  are  not  true
belecuers  but  hypocrites.
When  Þ  awl  Glick,  Chrii  bath  made
ts  free,  that  is,  mee  Pani,  and
rn
Recand,  that  every  belecucr  mult  by
his
wthapplyvato  bimſelfethebenefitof  Chriltian  liberty.  But  to
-  doethis  well,  is  a  matter  of  great  ditficulcie,  The  Papills  ia  theie
writings  report  our  dotineto  be  this:  that  a
man  muſtconceiue
jloathat  beeis  in  the  fauour  of  God  the  adopted  child  of
and  that  vpon  this  perſwalion  hee  hath  che  pardon  of  his
Wnand  the  benetitof  Chriltianliberry.  Butthzy  abuſeviin  this,
-  8iomany  otherthings.  For  wee  teach,  that  the  application  of
|  Cheiſtand  his  benefics,  is
to  bee  made  by  certaine  degrees.  The
1;  frſtis.toviethe  meanes  of
Galoation,
prayer,  Sacraments:  the  (e-
cad  is,  toconlider  aodto  grow  to  ſome  teeling  of  our  (pirituall
:  the  third
is,  to  will  and  delireto  beleeue  in  Chritt,  and
totellive  this  deſire  by  asking,feckiog,knocking  :  the  fourth  is;  a
_  eertaineperſiwalion,or
a  certainty  conceiued  in  mind  of  themercy
the  former  delire,accorging  to  the  promile
»  |  PotGod  by  meane;  of
|  of  God,  Arke,andit  rall  be  ginen  wnto  you,  The  fifth  is,an  experience
of  thegoodneſſe  of  God  atterlong  vie  of  themeancs  of  {aluation,
udthen  ypon  thisexperience  followesthe  full  perlivalion  of  mer-
cyand  forgiuenelle.
The  fourth  poynt,  concernes  the  office  of  belecuers,and  tha?
.  8,  to  [tand  falt  in  their  Chriſtian  libertie,  andin  thedotrine  of
*  |
©  theGolpell,  which  revucales  this  libertze.  And  by  t3is,  weein  Eng-
{&/odareadmoniſhedso  (land  Faſt  to  thereligion  which  is  now  by
elabliſhed
among  vs,  and  not  to  returne  ae:  +  of
bondage.
For  the  Popiſh  religion  is
flat  againl!
Chri-
ſinalibentie.cwowaycs.  For  be  libertie  which  wehavein  Chrill,
,-in
trees'vy  from  the  law  three  wayeszin  reſpeR  of  condemnation
Ln
A  #rcheRt
