---
page: 32
pdf_page: 54
sortable_pagination_id: "32"
---
A  Commentarie  pon
42
Chap.1.
or  0-
calling,
every  man  from  the  very  wombe  to  one
helſeparates
by  glvingg  tes,and
ther  :  and  accordingly  he  calles  them  in  time
will,co  doethat,
appointed  And
for  which  they  w
this  L  vn-
lie,  Church,  or  com-
all  lawfull  callings,
in
derſiand  of
mon  wealth.  Thus  Chriſt  wascalled  from  the  wombe,  and  ſet  5
aparttobea  PATE  and  _  ob  ay  w  a
het,  [eremie
1.5,
Chrilt
is{aid  to  gi
Pr
a-
horteachers.  E  4-11,  God  ſent-loepb  vato  Egypt  to
bethe  0-
uernour
of,  and  a  releever  of  Jacobs  familie.  Gen.45.  Inthis
regard
the  Medes  and  Perſians  areſaid  to  berhe  ſaniÞfied
enevof  God,  1,
1{ai,  1.3.  3.and  the men  of  his  counſtllzIſa.46.  11,
The  vſe.  Hence  wee  are  all  taught,  to  walke  in  our
callings  with
diligence,  and  goodconſcience:  Becauſe  they  are  aſtigned
vs  of
God,  Hence  wee  are  taughttoyeeldobedienceto  our  rulers  and
teachers:  becauſethey  that  are  ourralers  and  teachers,were  ſepara»  !  5
ted  from  the  wambe  to  bee  ſo,andthat  by  God  himſelfe,  without
the-will  of  man,  Hence  we  may  gather  a{ſuranceof  Gods  proteRi-
on,andaſliſtancein  our  callings\:forintbat  hee  hath  appointed  vs
ourcallings,he  wilaiſo  defend  vs  inthe.  2.Cor.3.45.1/45.49.2,  Hence
we  may  learne  patience,and  contentation  in  all  miſcries,  and  trou-  9
bles  of  our  calliogs,for  in  whatcalling  ſoever  thou.  art,  thou  walt
">
FROTeP
yy
——
—___  ww.
3P
ordainedto  it  by  God  from  thy  mothers  wombe,  Thinkeon  this.
Hence  we  learnethavkfulnes  to  God,  becauſe  our  calling,  giftes;.
andthe  execution  ofourcallipgs,  is  wholly.  of  God\:and  this  Paul
ſignifics,whea  be
faith  that  our.  ſeparationto  our  offices,  and  cal-  25,
lings,was  from  our  firlt  conception.  Hence  weelearne  to  depend
on  \30ds  providence  forthe  time  to  come.
For  if  hee
provided  our
ings,
when  wewere
not,  hee  will  much  more
aide
,  and  ble(ſe
vsin  them
now  while
we  hagea  becing,  Reade  Pſalwm,22.8.9.Poore
parentsthat  cannot  leauelandes.,  and  livings  to  their.  children  3a
after  their  deceaſe,
let  them  comfort  therſeluesin  this;  that  their
children  are  from
theirmothers  wombe;,  ſeparated  to  ſome
good
office  and  condition  of  life,  by  the  wiſedomeof  God:  and  that
a  goodoffice  or  calling,  is  better  thenland  andliving.
Thirdly  ,it  appeares  hence'thatthetime  of  all  events  is  deter-  ;5
minedin  the  counſell  of  God,  For  God  determines  with  himſelfe
the  time  ifi  which  he  will  call,  and  convert  Paw,  By  this  wee  are
taught,in  our  praiers  not  tolimit  God  to  any  time  fortheaccom-
pliſkhment  ofour  requelts:  for  the  dilpolition  of  time  is  his,  &  that
15to  beleft  to  his  wiſedome.  Againein  ouraffliftions  and  temp-  42
tations  wee  may  not  make  halte,forhelpe  and  deliverance  before
the  time,  but  waitethe  leaſure  of  God,  who.  bath  decreede  the.
time.
