---
page: 298
pdf_page: 320
---
A  Commentarie  p0u
Chap.  4-
396
the  wilderwe(ſe  is  Chriſt,  1.Cor.10,4.thatis,bgures  Chriſt.  Like  to  this
is  the  Sacramentall  phraſe,  7bis  i  m7  body,  that  is  to  lay  this  bread
ſonifies
my  body,  Great  is  the  madnelſe  of  men  that  hence  gather
Tranfſubſtantiation,or  the  reall  converſion  of  bread  into  the
hey  might  as  well  gather  heace  the  conuerlion  of  Aga  ,
of  Chrilt,T
into  mount  Sinai.
T  he  two  Teſtaments  are  the  Coucnant  of  workes,  and  the  Co.
uenantof  grace,  one  promiſing  life  eteroall  to  him  that  doth  all
things  contained  inthelaw  :  the  other  to  him  that  turnes  and  be.
Tzeves  emmy  ny  oy  obſerued,that  Par!  faith,  they  are
two,  that  is,  two  in{ubllance,  orkind.  And  they  are  twoyſundry  '*
waies.  The  law,or  couenant
of  workes,
propoundsthe  bare  juſtice
of  God,without  mercy  :  the  covenant
ofgrace,  orthe  Goſpel,  re-
ucales  both  the  iultice  &mercy  ofGod,or  the  iuſtice
of
wi
placeto  his  mercy.  Secodlygthelawrequires  of  vs  inward  &
righteouſneſſ<,both
for  nature  and  ation;
the  Galpel  Propoveds  ;
vato  vsan  imputed  iulti
afour.
Thirdly,thelawpromiſeth
life  vpon  condition  of  works  :  the  Gol.
pel  promiſeth  remiffion
of  (innes
and  life cuerlaſtiog  vpon  conditi-
an  that  werel}  our  ſelues
faith.  Fourthly,the  law  was
written  in  tables  of  fone,  the  Goſpel
in  the  flclhy  tables  of
our*?
hearts.  /er.3  1.33.  2.Cor.3.3.Fiftly,the  law  was  in  nature
by  creati-
n  :  the  Goſpel  is  aboue
natur
was  reucaled
after  the  fall
Sealy  the  w
hat
«  fora  Mediatour,  Demar.5.27,but
Chriſt
is  the  Mediatour  of  thenew  Tellament,  Heb.  8.6.Laſtly,  the  law  ;
was  dedicated
by  the  blood
of  beaſts,  Exod.  24.  5.  and  the  new  *
Teſtament  by  the  blood  of  Chriſt,  Heb.g.12,
Here  then  falls  to  thegrounda  maine  pillar  in  Popiſh  religion,
which  is;thatthe  law  of  Aoſer,and  the  Goſpel,  are  all  one  law  for
ſubltance:  and  that  the  difference  lies  in  this,that  the  law  of  Moe  #
is  darkeand  imperte&,  and  the  Goſpel  or  the  law  of  Chrilt  more?
perteR  :  becauſe
he  bath  (as  they  ſay)  added  counſels  to  precepts
Againe,  the  law(they  ſay)  without  the  Spirit,  is  the  law  proper,
and  with  the  Spirit,it  isthe  Goſpel.  But  all  this  is  falſe
whichthey
teach.For  the  two  Teltamentsthe  law  andthe  Goſpel,  aretwo  in  ts
vature,  ſubltance,  or  kinde  :  and  the  difference  lies  not  in  the  pre-
ſenceor  abſence  of  the  ſpirit.
And  whereas  the  Papilts  make  twoiultifications;the  firſt  meere-
ly  by  grace,  the  ſecond  by  workes  :  belides  the  two  Teſtaments,
they  mult  eſtabliſh  atbird  Teſtament  compounded  of  both,  andit  ®
mull  be  partly  legall,  and  partly  Euangelicall;  otherwiſe  the  two-
told  ialtitication  cannot  (land,  For  thelaw  propounds  onely  ont
way
