---
page: 299
pdf_page: 321
---
the  Epiite  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.  4
way  of  iuſtification,and  the  Goſpel  a  ſecond,  The  doAtine  there-
fore  that  propounds  both,is  compounded  of  both.
God  did  aot  approue  the  polygamy  of  e4Abrabaw,  yet  doth  he
vſe-it  to  lignifie  the  greatel}  my(tery  of  our  religion.  Here  we
5  ſee  a  great  point  ofthe  diuine  providence  of  God,  who  ordereth
and  vieth  well  the  things  which  be  doth  net  approoue.  This
is  the  foundation  of  our  patience,  anda  mzanes  oftrue  comfort.
Ioſeph  thous  comforts  himſelfe  and  his  brethren,  that  God  orde-
red  and  diſpoled  their  bad  enterpriſe,  to  his  and  their  good.
10  Gen.  45.67.
Here  againe  Pax/  (ets  downe  two  properties  of  the  Teliament
of  workes,  or  of  the  law,  The  firit  is,  thats:  came  from  monnt  Sins,
And  here  lies  the  difference  betweenethe  law  and  the  Goſpel  :  the
law  is  from  Sinai,the  Goſpel  from  Sion  or  lerulalem,  Forthere  it
15wasfirlt  to  be  preached,and  thence  conueied  to  all  nations.  Aficb,
4.1,  Ezech  47.1.
The  ſecond  propertie  of  the  law  is,that  it  gendreth  to  bondage*
becauſe  it  maketh  them  bondmen,that  looke  to  be  ſaved  and  julti”
bet  thereby.  And  this  it  doth,  by  revealing  (ione  and  the  puniſh”
20  ment  thereof,  which  is  everlaltiog  death.  z  and  by  conuincing  all
men  of  their  ſinnes,and  of  their  deicrued  condemnation.  In  this
relpeR,  itis  called  rbe  miniterie
of  death,  2.Cor.;.6  and  Pan  faith,
that  after
be  knew  his  linones  by  the  law,  he  died,  2nd  the  faw  was
the  meanes  ofdeath  vnto  him,  Rom.7.  10.  Here  is  another  diffe-
35  rence  betweene  the  law  aod  the  Goſpel,  Thelaw  genders  to  bon-
:  the  Goſpelgenders  tolite,Forit  is  an  inftrument  of  the  Spi-
rit  for  the  —_—  and  confirming  of  our  regeneration  and  fal-
vation  :  and  {o  is  not  the  law,  which  1s  no  caule,but  onely  an  occa-
lionof  the  grace  of  Godin  vs.
39  Vhereas  lerufalem  that  now  ir,  is  ſaid  ts  be  in  bondage,  as  Simas
and  Hagar  :  It  is  to  bee  obſcrued,  that  there  is  no  Churchinthe
world,nor  people,  which  is  not  {ubieR  toapoſtalie,  For  Gad  had
made  great  and  largepromiſesto  leruſalem,  Pſalm.  122.  and  132.
and  zetforall  this  Jerullecs  by  refulirg  Chriſt  ,  and  by  effabli-
35  ſing  the  iuſtice  of  che  law,  is  comeinco  bondage  ,  and  depriuves
herſelfe  ofthe  inheritance  of  eternall  life,  Thertoreit  is  a  falſhood
which  the  Papilts  teach,  thatthe  infallible  aſliſtance  of  theSpirit
istyedtothe  Chaire  and  Conliſtorie  of  the  Pope,  ſoas  he,  and
conſequently  thechurch  of  Rome,cannoterre.  Hereagaine,we  ſee
4*  What  may  bethefutureconditionot  England.  For  it  may  be  ſaid
of  it  bereafter,  Evgland  that  now  is,is  not  that  w  hich  it  bath  bene,
namely  ,a  maintainerofche  Goſpell  of  Chriſt,  Therefore  wemult
not
