---
page: 300
pdf_page: 322
---
Chap.  4-
A  Commentarie  pon
308
not  be  high  minded  but  feare,and  now  take  heedofthe  firſt  begin.
ning  of  apoſtaſie.  The  holy  Gbolt,  Hebr.  3.1  2,13.  ſet  dowpethe
the  decer
in  number.  T  be  firit_is,
degreesthereof,and  they  are  five
;7-me  :  thelecond  isgthe  berdewing  of
15:
heart,after  mea  are  deci.
heart,  which  growes  vpon  hard.  5
ued  by  (inne:  the  third  is,ovewdl
neſle  of  heart  :  thefourth  is*beleefe,  whereby
the  word  of  God  ig
called  in
queſtion,  and  thetruth  thereof  :  and  after  vabelecte
fol.
departwre  from  God  and  Chriſt,  T  hat  this  may  oot  beewee
lowes  a
all  thedeceits  of  (inne;  as  aamely,  couetoul.
avoid
mult  carefully
lo
ne(ſe,ambition,luſt,&c.
he  och  Iſhmael
A  ene
all  iuſticiaries,
wed  by
that  looketo  be
ſaved  by  the  law.  Here  then  we  ſee  the  condition
of  the  world  ,  the  greatelt  part  whereof  arc  //>maehtes.  For  the
Turke,  and  the  lew,looke  at  this  day  to  bee  ſaued  by  their  works,
The  Papiſtaſcribes  hisconuerlion  not  wholly  to  grace,  but  partly  1;
to  grace,  and  partly  to  nature,  or  theſtreagrh  of  mans  will  helped
by  grace.  And  thus  arethey  borne  after  che  feſh  as  [/avecl  was,
And  our  common
though  in  ſhew  th\:y  profeile  reformed
religion,  yet  i
agreat  part  of  them  are  /ſ>woae/sres,  For  they
looke
to  be  ſaued  by  their  good  (eruing  of  Go1,  and  by  their  good  0
deeds:  and  they  little  thinke  on  Cheilt  aod  his  merits.
And  thut
they  deprige  themſelyes  of  alltitle  to  eternallife.  T  berfore  it  (lands
themifi  hand  to  condemne  nature  avd  the  ſtrength  therof,  andts
renouncetheir  owne  workes,  and  to  re(t  onely  on  the
mercy  for  eteroall  ſalvation:  thus  ſhall  they  be  the  children  of  the  ?f
promiſe,and  heires  of  God.
Laſtly,in  that  leruſalem  is  in  bondagelike  Ager,or  mountSinai,
wee  fee  how  vaine  are  the  pilgrimages  tothe  holy  land,
and how
necdletle  werethe  warres  made  forthe  recovery  thercot.
zo
26  But  Ieruſalem  which  is  aboe  ,  s  free  :  which
«  the  ms
ther  of  ws  all.
Heere  Pas!  ſhewes  what
is  figured  by  Sars,  namely,  the  new
leraſalem,which  is  the  Cathohk<  Church,  Heby.1  2.2  2,23,  Revd.  35
21,2,  Andit  is  beere  ſo  tearmed,  becauſe  leruſalem  was  a  typt
thereof  in  lixe  reſpects,  Firlt,God  chole  leruſalem  abaue  all  other
places  todwell  in,  P/al.132.13.  Andthe  Catholike  Church  is  the
company  of  predeſtinate,  choſen  to  be  a  particular  people  to  God,
leruſalem  isacitie  compatt  1  it  ſelfe,  by  reaſon  of  the?
bond  of  loveand  order  among  the  citizens,  Pſ,122,3.1D  like  ſort
the  members  of  the  Catholike  Church  arc  linked  together  by  -
bon
