---
page: 301
pdf_page: 323
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galathians.
Chap.
4.
399
bond  of  one  ſpirit.  _—_
leruſalem  was  the  SanAuarie,  a
place  of  Gods
ce,and
of  his  worſhip,wherealſotbepromiſe
of  the  ſeed  of
the  woman  was  renee  till  the  comming  of  the
Mellias  :  and  now  the  Catbolike  Church  isin  the  roome  of  the
5  SanQuarie:  In  it  mult  wee  ſecke  the  preſence  ef  God,  and  the
word  of  life  :  theretore1t  is  called  the  pillar  avd  ground  of  trneth,  1,
Twmethie  3.15.  Fourthly,in  leruſalem  was  the  throne  of  Daxid,
Pſalme  122.  5.andin  the  Catholike  Church  isthe  Throne  or  Scep.
terof  Chriſt  ,  figured  by  the  kingdome  of  Dawid,  Kenelation  3.  7.
10  Fiftly,  the  commendation  of  acitie  (as  leruſalem)  is  the  ſubieRi-
on  and  obedience  of  the  citizens  :  now  in  the  Catholike  Church
all  beleeuersarecitizens,  Epheſianc  2.19,  and  they  yeeld  volunta-
ric  obedience  and  ſubietiva  to  Chritt  their  King,  P/a/me  110.2.
16.2.5.  Laltly,as  io  lerufalem  the  names  of  the
citizens  were
15  inrolled  in  aregilter  :  forthe  names  of  allthemembers  of  the  Ca-
owe  Chucch,
are  iorolled  in  che  booke  of  lite,  Rewelarion  20.15,
Hebr.12.2  3.
Againe,  the  Catholike  Church  dwelling  here  belowe,  is  ſaid  to
bee  abone  in  beauen  for  two  cauſes,  Firit,  inreſpet  of  her  begin-
19  niog}-which  is  from  the  eleRion  and  grace  of  God,and  from  Chrilt
the  Mediatour,ot  whbolſc  ficſh  and  bone  wearethat  belecue,  Fpheſ.
5.30,  The  iuſtice  wherby  beare  wuſtificd,is  in  Chriſt-  our  holinetle
andlife,  Howes  tromthe  holinetle  and  life  of  Chrift,as  from  a  root.
Secondly,the  Church  I»  {aid  to  {  ce  aboue,  becauſe  it  dwels  by  faith
15  inheaver  with  Chrilt  :  'or  the  propertie  ot  faith  is  tomake  vs  pre-
ſent  after  a  ſort,  when  we  are  abſent,  Heb.  1  1  2.
Thevſe,  This  beirg  ſo,  weare  admouiſhedtoliuein  this  world
x  pilgrimes  and  rangers,  1,Per.4,11.and  therfore  we  muſt  not  (et
ourloue  ypon  any  cartbly  rhing,  but  our  minds  mult  be  vpon  the
39  countrey  to  which  wearetrauclling.  And  whatſoever  is  an  hinde-
{0
nance  to  ySin  our  iouroey  :  we  muit  call  it  from  vs,that  wemay  go
lightly\:and  if  we  haue  any  wrongs  done  v>  either  in  guodsor  good
nameywee  mult  the  rather  be  content  :  becauſe  weeare  out  of  our
countrey  ina  (range  place:  and  hereupon  wee  mull  take  occalion
15  fomake  halte  to  our  1tourneys  endyto  our  own  citie,and  lalt  abode.
Thus  did  the  Patriarches,Heb.11.1  3,15.
Seconcly,  wee  mult  carrie  uur  ſelves  as  Burgeſles  of  heauen,
Phil,  3.  20.  And  this  wethall  doe,  by  minding,  ſeeking)  aff<Ring
of  beaucoly  things,  by  ſpeaking  ibe  lang'rage  of  C\:maans  which  1s,t0
{©  invocate  aud  pr\:i.e  the  nameof  God.  Laltly,by  leading  a  fpiri-
tuall  life,  that  may  beſeemethe  cit/zens  of  heauen.  Many  faile  in
this  point,  when  they  come  tothe  Lords  table,  they  protetle  —
