---
page: 324
pdf_page: 346
sortable_pagination_id: "324"
---
A  Commentarie  7p 0%
Chap.  5  -
3%,
They  anſvcer  tothe  mwnor,by  making  a  double  fulbNing  of  the
law,one
for  thislife,the  other  for  the  life  tocome;and  both  in  their
kind  perfeR.  T  befvultilling  of  the  law  for  the  time  of  thislife  (c
fay  )it  is  to  love  God  aboueall  creatures  ip  truth\:and  that  he  whi
doth  thus  much,tulfilsthe  law,and  is  no  offender.  Hereupon  they  5
oppoſed
inferre;that  works  may  be  anſwerable  to  the  law,  and  be
to  the  iudgement  of  God,  And  for  thisdoArine,they  alleadge  $,
Azugruſtine.|  anſweragaine;that  Palin  this  place  takes  it  for  acon.
fetſed  eruth,that  no  man  can  fulkll  the  law  :  and  he  vrgeth
it  as  a
inconuenience,that
any  ſhould  be  bound  to  keepe  the  whole  19
aw.  And  before
he  hath  faid,He  which  is  of  rhe  wt  =  >?  '"*
curſed\:Gal.3.10,which  could  not  be;  if  there  were  a
fulbling  of  the
law  for  the  time
of  this  life.  Asfor  Auguſtimegit  istruc  be  makes  two
Die
be  ah
inimparesandthicſmperſecion
he
makertobe'
this  hefaith
isi
is
e  makes
tobe  11s
ſigne;whereas
the
Papiſts  of  oar  time  teach,  that  men  may  fulfil
thelaw
for  thetime
ofthis  life  without  (inne.
Where  Part  faith,  If  ye  be  corewmeiſed  :  marke  how  thefalſe  A.
pollles  abuſe  circumciſion.  It  is  by  divine  ioffitution  a  ſcale
of  the
righteouſnesof  faith,and  they  make  ita  meritorious  cauſe  of  (al.  26
uation.  It  isindeede  rather  Gods  worke,then  our  worke  :  and  they
make  it  theirowne  worke,and  that  meritorious  beforeGod,  Like
doe  the  Papiſts  at  this  day.  Baptiſme
is  a  figne
and  ſeale  of  Gods
mercyby  divine  ioltitution\:and
they  turneit  ivto  a  ol  erm
which.containesand  conferres  grace.  In  like,ſortthey  rurne  the  15
workes
irit,almes,praicr,faſting,contrition;yea  theirowne
traditions
100,  ſatisfaQion,  and  ſuch  like,  joro  meritorious
cauſes
of  iuſtibcation,gud  life,  And  this  is  the  faſhion  of  deceivers,
co  retaine  the  pames  of  boly  things,  but  not  to  retaine  the  right
vieot  them.  oP
ob  uk
of
36
As  bereweſce
Circumciſion
was  an  obligation  to  the  keeping
of  the  wholelawintheold  Teftament;
ſo  is  baptime
inthencw
an  obligation  or  bond,  whereby'  we  have  bound  our
ro
lue  according  to  all  the  lawes  of  God,  7th.  28.19,
20:  This
Ciſcouers  the  Atheiſme  and  vnbeleefe  of  perſons  bapriſedintheſe  35
our  _  :  for  few-there
be  that  thinke  vpon,  and  performe
this  obligation,  ©  4d  07  09904  0
We  are  further  to'obſeru#the  condition  of  the  law,  Ir  @  whoty
cep:«latwe,  Allthe  parts
of  it  arc  link.  d  one  to  another,  He  that
49
is
bound  to  one  commandement,  is  boupdro  alt:  he  rbat  keepes
oncindcede,  keepes  alt';  h&that  breakes  one,  in  reſpeR  of  the
d\:ipolition  of  his  heatrgy  a  breaker  ofall;/aw.2.7  hc  that  makes
