---
page: 303
pdf_page: 325
---
the  Epiſtle  ro  the  Galathiiys.
Chap.  4.
nothiog  but  the  private  interpretation,of  L«ther,  Melantthor,
Calninihc.  Anſwer.  Scriptureis  both  the  glolle  and  thetext.  And
thepriocipall  meanes  of  the  i
ion
of  Scripture,  is  Scrip-
tureiticlte,  Andit  isa  means,when  places  of  Scriptugeare  expoun.
5  dedby  the  analogieof  faith,  by  thewords,  ſcope,  and  circom(tan-
=  theplace.  And  the  i
ion  which  is  ſatableto  all
thele,is
ſare,  certaine,  and  publike:  for  it  is  the  interpretation  of
God.  Contrariwiſe,  theinterpretation,  which  is  not  agrecableto
ds.  he  we  Chuch,  Fathers,  and  Councels  ,  is  vn-
40
cert.
d  itis  private
ions,
Now  this kind  of  inter-
uate  interpretations
ofRome  arepublike.  Secondly,l  anſwer,that
we
areabletoiuſtific
our  interpretationof  Scriptpre  forthe  wn
mart
is
|  of  Fathers,and  Councets,as  wel  as  they
7  4
2031
THTOSY
.*,
MAIS.
Tho  ſtcond  matine.  VVeehauenodivine  and  infallible  authoritie
tozelton inmatter  of  religion:  but  they  of  the  Church
of  Rome
have.  An/wer.  In  the  Canonicall  Scriptures  of  the  Prophets  and
diuine  andinfallible  authoritie  ;  for  they  are  now
"YL
of  God,  And
voyce
liuely
of  the
wtbe-new  Teſtament,  in  lead
'  Secondly,  |  an-
wee  io  our  Church  acknow
tie
hath  nodiuineand  infallible-zuthoririe  di-
Church
that  the
ltin&  fromthe  autboritic  of
es  (  as  the  Papilts  teach
)  but
15  nely  a  Miniſterie,
which  is,to  ſpeakein  the  name  of  God,accor«
dingto  the  written
word.
51
of  opiniop,
The  third  motive.  Wee  have  no  limitations
and  affe-
firit:
they  ofthe  Church  of  Kome  have.  |  antwer
we  ſuf-
to  bee  limitted
for  opinion,  by  the  analogie  of  faith,
our
lelues
i  and  by  the  written  word,  and  ſo  doth
not the  Papilt,  which  addes
And  foraffeion  wee  ſuffer  our  ſelues
tradition  to  the
doQrineofrepeotance,and
new  obedience.56
tobelimi
the
copdly,l  anſwer;that  the  Charcb  of  Rome  vieth  falſe  meanes  of
we  mult  captivate
limitation,  Forit teach
opinion,
our
for
ſenſes  tothe  determination
of  the  Church,  by  beleeving  as  the
Church  belecueth,  though  it be  not  knowne  what  the  Church  be-
affeQion,  by  auricularconfe(lion,and  by  ca-
leeueth,  Andit  limits
novicallſatisfaRions,
meere  inventions  of  men.
The  4.wpetive,  TheRomanereligion  drawes  the  multitude.  A».
©  Itdrawsthem  indeed,  becauſcit  i;  a  natua]  religion:  but  it  dothnor
turnthem  frs  darknes  tolight,fro  death  to  life.Secondly,]  anſwer,
{hat  Antichriſt  in  his  comming  ſhal  draw  the  multitude,
2.7
be/.2  »
