---
page: 304
pdf_page: 326
---
Chap.4-
4  Commentarie
pon
312
The  fift.  motine,  There
was  never  by'  two
alterationsof
on,  One,  in  the  dayes  of  Ehazy  the  other,  inthe  dayes  of  Joby
Baptift.  Anſwer,  |  will  ſhewa  third.  Pa»/faith;that
theend
there  ſhall  be  a  departure,'2.  7hef,  2,  and  this  departure  is  general
in  all  nations,  Keel.  13.  15,  andaftera  thouſand  yeares  there  ſhall  ,
bee  the  frft  reſurretion;Revel  20  5.  and  this  refurreRion  isthe
reuiviog  and  thereſtoring  of  the  Goſpell,afterlong  ignoranceang
{uperſtition.
ry
The  ſixt  motine.  T  he  Church  of  Rome  hath-a  I
th
te  aber  Hae  Seterniatagal  _
the  Scripture
isthe
voic
contentation  of  any
The  ſenenth  metine,  The  Rormane  religion
is  fatableto
anc
——
cond:
mandement  touching  Images,and  the  tenth,
touching
oucrturneth  fatiary  ietickevof  faich;/Rhe  it  aboliſhertf  one  of  ihe
natures  of  Chrilt  bythe  reallpreſence,and  histhree
ing
partners  and  aflociates
with  him;
»  +501
".  Toubeleſeoen;Laddethreeother;.7  be
'then  4s  this:
Our  Miniſters(fay  they)tookevntothi
Ni
copſequently;tbat  we  are  but  Schilmatikes,  {uſw,
Theo!
the  firit  reſtorers  of  the  Goſpall  were  ordinary  :
xeation
to  the  ſaid  offices  was  ordinary  :  for  they  were  all  either  Priefls,or
———C——C————————
lings.I  anfwer,they  departed  only  fromthe  communabuſe  ofthet
nt
theyreftored  totbeirrighe  vis
which
lings,
en
—_
Rome  hath  troe  baptiſmeand
therfore  it  is  a
true
Church:  Auf.  Baptiſmein  the  Papacy  pertaines
not  to  it,  but  to  anather  hidden  church  in  themidſtof  the
bo
as  thelight
inthe
ains  noteo  it,
buttotbe
y,thoughthe  chorchof  Rome  hold  theoutward
pn
ouerturnethe  -—_  which  _  _
a  Goner,by  imputation  ofthe  obedience  of  Chriſt,
tiſme  ſeucred  from  the  preaching  of  the  Goſpell,is  webs  4  is
Chorch.  Circumciſion  was  viced  in  Samaria,and  yet  they-wereno
peopleofGodsHoſea  1  9.
The  temthworine,  The  Church  of  Rome  hath  antiquiticand
foo
cellion  fromthe  ApcUes.  Axſw.  They  areno  marks  ofthe  eburch)
valeſſe  they  bee  ioyned  with  Propheticall  and  Apoltolicalldo-#
Arine.  T  he  kingdome  of  darkenes  bath  alſo  antiquitie,ſucceſhon
vaiucrlaltic,apd  voitie.._
Now
