---
page: 327
pdf_page: 349
sortable_pagination_id: "327"
---
the  Epiitle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.s.
335
|  Pacirenmoifion  ]  that
iz,  the  conditioa  and  workes  of  men  vncir-
|  -  Availeth  anything
is  of  no  vſe,reſpeR,or  acceptation  with  God,
Faith  wor  kirg  }]  faith  effeQuall  in  duties  of  love.
5  Therelolucioo,  Theſe  words  containe  a  ſecond  reaſon,  where
Pax/confirmes  the  former  conclulion,  and  it  may  be  framed  thus.
Thatthing  which  makes  vs  wait  for  the  hope  of  righteouſaelle,
thatiultifes\:not  circumcilion,  but  faith  makes  vs  wait  forthe
ofrighteouſnes:  therefore
not  circumcilion  but  faith  ialtifies.  T
19  propoſition
18  omitted:  the  mmor  is  in  the  5;  verſe,  Anditis  confirmed
by  two  arguments.  The  firtt,  isthe  conſent  of  all  Churches,  #+e
var.  Thelecondis  taken  from  rheproperty  of  faith  in  the  6.  verſe,
thus:  Ic  is  faith,  and  not  circumciſion  that  auailes  before  God:
therefore  faith  and  not  circumcilion  makes  vs  wait.
1  Again,in  theſe  two  verſes,  Pax/  meets  with  an  obietion,which
may  be  framed  thus:  If  yee  aboliſh  circumciſion  and  the  cere-
monialllaw,  ye  aboliſh  the  exerciſes
of  religion.  Theanſweris  :  in
flead  of  thera  we  haue  other  exerciſes  in  our  ſpirit,  namely,  the  in-
ward  exerciſes  of  faith,  hope,and  loue.  The  vſe.  lathe  5.  verſe,  foure
tothingsareto  beconlidered.  T  he
firlt  is,  who
waites?  Paw/(aith,,Ye
wat,  Before  be  bath  iuſlified  bis  doQrine  by  the  Scriptures,  now
he  addes
the  conſent
ofthe  Churches.  Here  then  wee  ſee  what  is
theoffice  of  all  faithful!  diſpenſersof  the  word,  namely,to  declare
fchdofrines  a3  are  founded  inthe  Scriptures,
and
by
4;  the  conſevt  ofthe  true  Church  of  God.  Pax/an  A
that  could
conſent,  much.moceare
all  ordinary  Miniſters
to  doe  if
Againes  it  is  the  office  of  all  Chrif  an  peot
to  maintaine
20d
all  {ach
doArines
and
opinic
aunged  lo  tt
zo
Scriptures,  aud  ratified
by  the  conlent
of  the  true  Churches
no  other.  This
to  doe  is  to  walkein
i=  codoe
otherwiſe  is  to  walke  inthe  way
of
The  ſecond  point  is,  what  is  waited  for?  Pan!  faith,  the  revelation
35
ofrightcouſner
and  cternall  ſaluation,  Here  |
obſeroe,  that  thereis  no
witification  by  the  obſervation  of  the  law:  and  [  prooue  it  thus:
Therighteoulnes  whereby  a  ſinner  is  juſtified,  is  apprebended  by
fath;and  expeRed  by  hope  :  but  if  righteouſnes  were  by  the  law,
men  ſhould  have  he  trokianof  their  cighteouſnes  in  this  life,  and
®  conſequently  the  hope  thereof  ſhould  ceaſe.
Secundly  ,  beere  1s  comfort  tor  the  godly.
They  complaine
of
the  «ant  of  anRibication  ;  but  they  arc  to  know,  that  in  this  _
they
