---
page: 328
pdf_page: 350
sortable_pagination_id: "328"
---
:  "=o?  c__
Sf
hey  ſhallneuer  feele
ri
asthey
ooh
and  thirlt  aftesj  ;gbteouſnelle,  liviogiof  tant
of  ©
ic.  If  wee  haue  the  Relibons
fruites  Sf  the  ſpirit,the  batredof  ourowng
livoe,the  ſd  of  not  (inning)  the  feare  of  God,  and  ſuch  like,  -
wee  mult  content  our  felues,  and  wait  forthe  fruition  of  further  $
ou  thelife  ro  come.
dly,we  mult  become  waiters  for  the
of  God,andfoe
a_
g\:Gen.4g.18.  tud.y.21,  For  this  cauſe  we  mult  doeas
they  which  wait  andattendforſomegreat  benefit  :  wee  mult  daily
and  with  our  ſupplications,  knocking  at  the  mercie
gone  9  ;
death  :  and  wee  mult  daily  prepare  our
as  Gloes  again(}
death,and  it  rouſt  bee
welcome  vato
8:  forthes  isthe  end  of  all
—  The
Papilts  therefore  that  make
ſhould  alſo  make  ſpecial
fai
T  helaſt  point  Gr
gin  Here  29
obſerve,thatall  the  exerciſesof  Chriſtian  religion,  arego  beinthe
ſpirit.  God  muſt  bee  worſpippedin
ſpir,  [obu  4.24  Kom.  1,9.  The  heart
mult
be  rent,and  not  the  garment,/oe/  2.  T  be  inward  motionsof
the  ſpirit  re  ofthernſclues  the  worſhip  of  God,  whereas  our  words
1d  deeds  ;
but  (o  farre  forth  as
e  founded
in
cherenewedmgionaafthc  bear.
Men  in
ou
eneweder
kerb
ecoChurch,
{dt  DL  DI  mend
ipelovs,  >  vato  1;
ndbodih
workek  of  4
>=  I  ey
areof
no
mo-
why
et
e  1s
profitable  for  all:
rt
prextprviledgetobe  familiarly  acq  ed  UNO,  5  and  to  35
drogke  with  him:  yeriz  jcofo0  vſein  the
Kingdon
of  Chriſt.  For  of  ſuch  Cheilt  ſaith,
e  13.26.  Depart
from  me,  ye
en  cieloa.  It  wasa
to  be  allied  to  Chriſt  io
od  enecy
iothe  ki
=  hriſt;it  js  of  no  vie:  and
chefore
thyHethat  doth  the  will  of  my  Father  vs
oh
ffter,
and  mether,  Marks  3.33.  Taconceiueand
beare  Chri
great  honour  to  the  virgin  Aſarve:  yet  was  ſhe not  by  this  mage
A  mem-
