---
page: 329
pdf_page: 351
sortable_pagination_id: "329"
---
1]
the  Epiſtle  tothe  Galathians.
337
Chap.s.
W  þ
ber  of  the  kingdome  of  Cheilt,
but  by  ber  faith  in  him,  And
xe
had  not  borne  him  in  ber  beart,as
well  as  ſhe  barehim  io  her
«=  not  been  ſaved,  To  prophelicor  preach,and  that
inthe
Dameof  Chrilt,js  a  great  dignitie:  and  yet  many  having  this
$s
I;  ———  —_  becondemned,Afere.  7.22.  It  may  be  alleadged,
that  ome  outward  exerciſes,as  Eaptiſme,and  the  Lords  Supper,are
of  great
vie  inthe  Church  of  Chriſt,  1  avſwer,  theoutward  bap-
in
nothing  without  the  inward.  Not  the  waſhing  of  the  fleſh,  but
the
Ppwlation  of  4  good  conſcience  ſaneth,  1  ,Pet.;,18,  ('reumciſion  is
pro-
0  |  v  fuuble,if  thow  heepe  the  law,  Rom.  2.35,
By  this  wee  are  taught,not  toelteeme  of  mens  religion  by  their
riches,  and  externall  digpities,  For  the  faſhion  of  the  world  is,
if
aman  have  riches,  and  bonour,  to  commend  him  for  a  wiſe,  ver-
tous,  and  godly  man.  This  is  fooliſhly  zo  bave  faith  in  refpett  of
'$
l5  perſons,  Lanes  2.1,
arurx  4  by  this  wee are  taught  to  moderate  our  affections  in
tepe&
of  al
outward  things,neither  forrowing  too  much  for  them,
norioying  coo  much  in  them;
1.  Cor.  7,  ;0.
The  ſecond  concluſion,  Faith  is  of  great  vſeand  acceptation«in
io  |  gthekingdome
of  Chriſt.  By  it  firſt  our  perſons,and  then  our  acti-
oospleaſe  God:  anJ  without  it  nothing  pleaſeth  God.  Iris  thetfir(t
wdthe  greate(t  honour  wecan  doc  to
God,
to  giue  credence  to  his
word:  and  from  this  Bowes  allother  obedience  to  all  other  com-
mandements.  Hence  we  learne,
15  |  x  Firftthat  we  muſt  labourto  conceiue  faith  aright  in  our  hearts,
bythevſeof  theright  meanes,
the  word,praier,Sacraments:  as  allo
bandby
the  exerciſes  of  (pirituallinoocation,&  tepentance.
T  his
being  dome,  wee  mult  re{t  vpon  the  bare  word  andtellimonie  of
boduathout,avd  againll  ſenſe  and  teceling  :  and  qt  our  hearts
54  {|  ®thercin,both  in  life  and  death,
Secondly  ,  faith  in  Cbrilt  mult  reigne  and  beare  ſway  in  our
hearts,and  have  the  command  over  rea(00,will,atteRion,luit.  And
byit  whatiocuer  wedoor  fuffcr,ſpecially  the  maine  aRions  of  our
lves,are  to  be  ordered  and  diſpoled
y  Laſtly,ic  is  aching  to  bee  bewailed,  that  the  common  faith  of
_—_
our  dayes  is  but  a
ceremoviall  faith,  conceived  without  the  ordi-
nary  meancs,  and  ſeuered  from  the  exerciſesof  inuocation,  and
The  third  concluſion  is,  that  true  faith  workes  by  Joue.  Hence
#the  Papiſts  gather,that  loueis  the  forme  and  life  of  faith,  not  be-
cuſeitmakes  faith  tobe  faith;  but  becanſe  it  makes  it  to  bea  troe.
ith,  4good  faich,  a.liuciy  faich,  But  this  their  doQurine  is  _
vo
Yo
Ws
an
