---
page: 331
pdf_page: 353
sortable_pagination_id: "331"
---
the  Epiſtle  18  the  Galatians,
Chap.s.
339
promiſe,andtherefore  not  by  loue,  The  conſequent  I  proovethus,
Faith  and  loueare  two  hanesot  our  ſcule,  Faithis  an  hand  that
laies  bold  of  Chrilt,and  it  doth(as  it  were)pull  him  and  his  benefits
into  our  {oules.
But  loue  is  an  hand  of  an  other  kind,  forit  ſerues
z  Dotto  receive  in,butto  giue  outthe  good  it  hath,and  to  commu-
nicateitſelte  vato  others,  Therefore  taith  cannot  ioſhhe  by  lou.
Laltly;loue  in  order  of  nature  followes  iullification,  andtherefore
it  doth  not  iultife.For  felt  of  allfaith  laies  hold  on  Chriſt\:then  fol-
lones  iultification\:ypon  iuſtificatioa  follows  ſanQification,  and
part  of  fanRitication.
16  loueis  a
.  They  vrgefor  themwſelues  the  words  of  Pax/;that  fairbworkes  by
faith,  Auſ.  Panidoth  not  ſhew  in  this  verſe,  what  iuſltibeth,  but  what
xetbe  exerciles  of  Godlinesin  which  Chriſtiansmuſt  be  occupi-
&d.  And  he  doth  oot  ſhew  how  faith  iuſtifeth,  but  how  it  may.  be
1g  diſcerned  to  be  true  taith,namely,by  loue.
.  Secondly,  they  obiect  that  faithand  loueare  alwayes  ioyned  :
and  therefore  ioyotly  worke  in  juſtification,  Anſwer,  '
They  ar
ioyned  ip  Cneperſonor  ſubiect  :  and  they  areioyned  in  the  exer-
dof  Chriſtianlife:
but  they  are  notioyned  inthe  article  ot  ialti-
0  kication,
Thirdly,  they  vrge  the  2.of  5.  /awes,  whereitis
ſaide  that  «  man
winſtified  not  enely  by  fauh
but  alſo
by  worker.v.2  4.  Anſ,  Faith  in  $.[ames
hem  fr
hiſtoricall  knowledge  of  religion  ;  or  for  the  barecoo-
andprofellioo  of  faith,  A  |  ws
is  twofold;  one  of
5  the  prrſengthe  other  of  the  fab  of  the  perſen.
Juſtification  of  the  perſon  is,
when
a  (inner  is  abſolued  of  his  linnes,  and  accepted  to  life  ever-
aſting,for
the  merit  of  Chrilt.  /«/ftsficarion
of  the  fruth  of  the  perſon
when  faith
is  approoued  and  found  to  be  true  faith  :  and  a  be-
lecuer  juſtifies  bimſelfe  to  be  atrue  beleeuer.  Ofthis  ſecond  iulti-
j  bcation  ſpeakes  Saint  /ame-  ;  and  it  is  not  onely  by  faith,but  alſo
by  workes.
Lallly,it  maybe  obieAed,  that  loueis  of  novie,  'if  it  doe  notiv-
ibe.  Anſw,  luſlification,and  {anRitcation,are  two  diſtin  bene-
hts.n,Cor.  4.30.and  6.11.  luſtification  minifters  vntovs  deliverance
5  from  hell,and  aright  to  life  everlaſting  :  Sandification  is  a  fruit  of
theformer,apd  ſerues  tomake
vs  thaokfull  to  God  for  our  iultifiea-
tion  :  andloue  ſerves  for  the  {ame  vie,  becaulc  it  is  a  {peciall  part
of  Sandification,
Tbus  much  of  the  depravation  oft  hetext  by  the  Papilts.  Hence
#  further  |  gather  that  maoy  falſely  in  theſe  lalt  daies  boalt  of  faith:
decauſcit  is  not  ioyned  with  profiting  in  kaovledg,  with  the  true
tenuctlion  yato-God,with  fruits  of  loue  to  God  and  man  ;  where-
as
