---
page: 310
pdf_page: 332
---
Chap.  4-
A  Commentarie
pon
318
ſtion  may  bereſolved:  and  that  is,  whether  the  child  of  God  in  hig
converſation,  bavealibertie  and  powertorelilt  theinward  calling
of  God?  Anſwer,  No.  Theabſolute  willof  God  cannot  bereſi
ſted  :  now  the  promiſe  whereby  men  are  made  the  children  of
God,  istheabſolute  willof  God,  Againe;with  this  promilſeisjoy-  $
ned  theinfinite  power  of  God,  which  without  all  reliſtance  brings
that  to  palle  which  God  hath  promiſed.  For  heemakes  ments
doe  that  which  he  commands,  Ezech.  36.25,  be  gives  the  will  and
thedced,  Pb.2:  3.  l0as  men  effccually  called,  cannot  but  come,
Tobn  6.45.
nv
It  may  bee  ſaid,  that  this  is  to  aboliſh  all  freedome  of  will,
Anſwer.  It{othceth  tothelibertie  of  the  will,that  it  bee  free  from
compulyon  \:torconſtraint  takes  away  the  libertie  ofthe  will,and
not  neceſlitie.  Secondly,the  determination  of  mans  will  by  the
will  of  Godzisthe  libertic  ofthe  will,and  not  the  bondagethereot:  '5
for  o__  perfe&  libertie,  when  mans  will  is  conformable  to.the
29  But  as  he  which  was  borne  according  to  the  fleſh,perſecs-
ted  him  that  was  borne  after  the  ſpirit,  ſo  i  it  now.
Theſe  words  are  an  anſwertoan  obietion,  on  this  maner,  We
arc  hated  of  the  lewes:  and  therefore  wee  are  not  the  childrenof
promiſe,  Theapſweris  two-fold,  Onein  this  verſe,tbus,No
mat
uell:  thisis  the  olde  faſhion  :  it  was  thus  in  Abrabams  family,  For?
1/mae/  (borneafter  the  feſh)  perſecuted  //aac  (borne  after  the (pi
rit:)  andſo  itis  at  this  day.
Obſeruc,  that  there  is  a  perpetuall  enmitie  and  oppalition  be-
tweenetruc  beleeners
and  hypocrites,  God  put  emmitie  betweenethe
ſeed  of  the  ſerpent  andthe  ſeed  of  the  woman,  Geneſ.13,  15.  Theworld?®
batesthem  that  arechoſen  out  of  the  world,  /obu  15.19.
men  cannot  abide  that  their  opinions  &  doings  ſhould  be  iadged
and  condemned  of  others,/obn  3.20,  And  hence  comes  the  oppo
ſition  that  is  between  beleevers,and  bypocrites,who  cannot  abide
ſuch  as  are  not  likether(clues.
is
T  his  hatred  and  oppolition  ſhewes  it  ſelfe  jo  perſecutioo  :  of
which  three  things  are  to  be  conlidered.
T  he  kielt  is,  who  perſecutes  ?  An/wer.  Carnall  Iſhmadlites,ſuchas
are  of  the  ſamereligion  and  family  with  7/aac.  Thus  the  lewes  pet-
ſecuted  their  own  Prophets,  &  the  Theilalonians  were  perſecuted  #
of  their  owne  countrymen,1.7beſſ.  2.14.  Thus  Prieſts  and  leſuity
gat  haue  bin  heretotore  borne,  baptized,  &  brought  vp  mour
