---
page: 311
pdf_page: 333
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap.4
319
arethe  cauſesof  many  (editions,  conſpiracies,  and  ſeekethe  ſub-
verſion  of  Church  and  1and,
Theſecondis,whoare  perſecuted?  As/,Spirituallmen,the  chil.
dren  of  thepromiſe,  T  hey  ſuffer  wrong,  but  they  doe  none.  /n  the
5  mount  of  the  Lardthere  ts  no  burt  dme,1ſa.11,9.they  turne  their  [peares
and  ſmordryntomattcehs  and  ſhes.  1[a.2,4,  And  they  which  doe  no
wrong,but  arecontent  to  ſuffer  wrong(and  that  for  a  good  caule;)
are  in  thisreſpe  bleiſed,  arrh.s5.  10.
The  third  points,  is,  touching  the  kind  of  perſecution  :  and
19  that  was  skorning  or  mocking.  Ger.21.9.  It  may  be  demanded
how  mocking  can  be  perſecution?  Anſwer.  Mocking  and  derilion,
whichriſeth  of  the  hatred  and  contempt  of  our  brother,isa  degreee
of  murder.  He  which  ſath  Raca  to  his  braher,  11  guilty  of  a  Conncell,
Matth.5.22  Here  Raca;(ignitieth  all  lignes  &  geltures  that  expreſſe
15  contempt,  as  ſ#»ffing,  m/aing,  tering,  gernirg  &c.  Cain  is  rebuked
of  God,  even  for  the  calling  downe  of  his  countenance.Geneſ.
4erle  6.,
Againe,  the  mocking  wherewith  //mae/mocked  [ſaac,  pro-
ceeded  from  a  contempt  and  hatred  of  rhe  grace  of  Godin  1/a«c  :
20  which  Paw/notes  when  he  faith,  that  be  was  perſecuted  which  was
borne after  the  ſpirit,  T  his  hatred  of  Gods  grace  in  men,  is  the  be-
ginnipg
of  allpcrſecution,  and  the  deriding  of  the  graceof  God,
isasmuch  as  the  ſpoiling  of  our  goods,  &  theſecking  of  ourlives.
Thus  Cain  hated  his  brother,by  reaſon  of  the  grace  of  God:  becauſe
25  bu  deed;  were  goed.  1.  [ob.3.12,  A  great  part  ofthe  ſufferings  of  Chrilt
ſtood
in  this,  that  he  was  mocked  tor  his  contidence  in  God.
Pal.  22.8,  Matth,  27.43.  T  he  children  of  Bathe/mocke  Elizevs:
{t,  forhis  perſon,  calling  him  bald  pate  :  Secondly,for  the  fa-
your  of  God  ſhewed  vpon  Ekiar  his  maſter,  in  ſaying,  Aſcendgbald  *  Tultitua
30  pate  \:thatis,  *
aſcend  not  to  Bethel,  butzſcendto  heaven  as  Elias  quell.
did,  And  this  prophane  ſcorning  he  curſed  inthenameot  God.  2,
King.2.23,Thelike  {korniog  is  vied  among  vs  at  this  day.  For  the
practiſe  of  that  religion  which  ſtands  by  the  law  of  God,  and  the
good  lawes  of  this  land,is  nicknarned  with  tearmes  of  preciſeneſſe,
35  andparitie.  A  thing  much  to  be  lamented  :  for  this  bewraies  that
there  is  a  great  want  ofthe  grace  of  God  among  vs.  T
herforetake
heedeofit,
Jo:  But  what  ſaith  the  Scripture?  Put  out  the  bond-woman  ,
46  4nd  ber  ſonne\:for  the  ſonne  of  the  bondwoman  ſhal  not  be  heire
with  the  ſonne  of  the  freewoman.
The  ſecond  anſwer  to  the  former  obicion,  isin  theſe  ns
has:
