---
page: 312
pdf_page: 334
---
-——
A  Commentarie  pon
Chap.4-
329
has  Je  Fhich  hatethe  children  of  promiſe,  ſhall  at  length becaſ}
out  of  the  houſe
of  God.
Obiefl.  I.  Theſewords,  caf?  ont  the  bonawoman,  arethe  words  of
Sara  to  Abraham;  therefore  they  are  not  the  words  of  Scripture,
Anſwer,  The  words  were  vttered  by  Sar«,but  they  were  afterward  3
approoued  by  God,  Gevefr21.12.and  thus  they  are  the  voice  of
Scripture.
Obult,  [  1,  Sardis  Fry  rr  ber  amor
to  v-
1.Pe.3.6.
yet  here  ſhe  ſpeakes  impetioully,  Coff  ont
woman,
Anſwer,  She  (peakes  this  not  asa  private  woman,  but  as  the  voice  '0
and  mouth  of  God,and  that(nodoubt)by
inſtin&  from  God.  And
therefore  the  words  ſhee  vttereth,  areto  be  eſteemed  as  thecom-
maundement  of  God.  This  her  caſe  isextraordinarie,  and  notty
be  followed.
Thevſe.  I,  Allcarnallh
ites,mockers  of  the  grace  of  God,  1;
ſhall  becalt  foorthof
family,
for  atime  they  bearez
ſay  therein.  This  is  the  ſentence
of  God.  Let  vs  therefore
of  our  mocking,and
hereafter  become  lovers  of  the  grace  of
as  Chriſt  was,  arke  10.21,
[I,  Conſolation:  the
tion  ofthepeople  of  God  ſhal  not  ©
be  perpetual.  Forthe
ing
boadwomaa  and  her  ſoane,  Hull
be  calt  out.  The
rod  of  the
wickgd
ſball
not  reſt  vpon  the  lot  of  the  rights
dns  therkvbecodeathl
II.
iuſticiary
st
eto  bee
and  iuſtified  before  God  by  the  law,and  the  workes  of  the  law,  '!
ther  in  whole,  orin  part,  are  caſt  out  of  the  Church
of  God,  and
baue  no  partin  the  kingdomeof  heauen.  Thecalting
out
of
and  1/omacl;is  a  figure  of  thereieRtion  of
all  ſuch,  Behold  here
voice  of  God  caſting  downe  from  heauen  the  greatelt  part
of  the
earth,the  Turke,the  lew,theobſtinate  Papilt  >  with  the  ſtepmo-  9
ther,the  Romiſh  Church,
31  Then  brethren,  wee  axe  not  children  of  the  ſeruant
but  of
the  free  woman.
3s
2T
he  concluſion  of  the  whole
argument  following  dire&ly  from
the2  7.verſe.1fwe  be  children  of  thepromiſe,then  are  we  children
ofthe  free  woman,amtd  not  ofthe  bondwoman,  and  conſequently
weexeciultified  and  ſaued  without  the  workes  of  thelaw,  by  the
meere  grace  of  God,cauſing  vs  by  faith  to  reſt  on  the  promiſe
God,whoſe  ſubſtance  and  toundatioa  is  Chrilt,
CHAP.
