---
page: 335
pdf_page: 357
sortable_pagination_id: "335"
---
the  EpifHe  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.  5.
343
merit  of  workes,is  naught,  Againe,  God  calles  vsto  an  vtter  de-
niall  of  our  felues:  and  therefore  the  Popiſh  dodrine  of  pre-
paration  ,  and
of  freedomeof  will  in  the  converſion  of  a  (inner,
5  ©  Laſtly,itisfo  be  obſcrued,that  Paw!  ſaithin  thetime  preſent  [of
him  that  calleth  you  :)  for  henceit  appeares,  that  Y
continues  to
all  the  Galatians,cuen  aftertheir  tall,  in  which
fel
away  to
awother  Golpel,  and  as  much  as  in  them  lay,  aboliſh@
themſelves
from  Chriſt.  T  his  ſhewes  Gods  patience:  and  that  there  isa  polli-
1?  þilitie  —_—_  after  great  and  grievousfalls.
lt  may
be  ſaid,  how  long  doth  God  continue
to  call
men  vato
him?  Anſwer.  Solong  as  he  vouch(ateththem
the  bgpefit  of  the
publike  Miniſtery,  Thus  then  more  then  fourtieyeares  hath  God
called  vsin  England.  And  for  this  cauſe,  it  is  our  part  to  pray  to
15  God  for  bearing  cares  to  bepearced  in  our  hearts:  and  we  mult  an-
ſwer  the  calling  of  God,  P/aim.27.8.
at  the  leaſt  in  thedelires
and
sof  our  hearts.  And  laſtly,wemult  is  life  and  converſation
ſutable  to  the  calling  of  God.
w  9  A  little  leauenleauencth  the  whole  lumpe.
Theſenſe.  As  alictle
leauen,  leaveneth  and  ſauoureth  thewhole
of  dow  :  even  ſo,  one  errouror  point
of  corrupt  dodrine,
corrupteth  the  whole  body  of  Chriſtian
religion
:  becauſe  all  the
2;  points
of  religion  are  linked  and  com
together,  ſo  as  if
*  onebecorrupt,the
reſt  cannot  remaine
ſound  and  incorrupt.
Theſcope.  The  obictionof  the  Galatians  is  :  Put
caſe,  that
weerre  in  ioyping  Circumciſion
apd  Chriſt  :  yet  there  is  no  cauſe
why  thou  ſhouldelt ſoſharply  reproouevs:  for  itis  no  great  er-
$0rourtoioyne  workes
and  Chriſt  in  the  cauſe  of  our  luſtification.
Pawl  anſwers  tothis  obieRion  by  a  Proverbe,  ſaying,  that  «4  berle
leruen  of  falſe  dottrine,  corrupts  the  whole  body  of  religion  ;  and  one
errour,  thought  ſeeme  to  bee  of  {mall  moment  at  the  firlt;-may
at
length  bring  withit  the  corruption  and  depravation  of  many
15  other  poiats,
Thevſe.  ln  the  example
of  the  Galatians,  weſce  what  is  the
common  faſhion  of  men,namely,to  extenuate  their  faults,  avd  to
make  ſmall  matters  of  great  offences.  The  Pharilies  taught,  that
of  Gods  commandements  were  /wr1//  and  little  commanide-
©  ments,  Muth,  5.19,  To  them  that  make  oo  conſcienceof  linne,
great  (innes  are  little  linnes,2nd  little  finves  are  no  linnes  Pride  is
cleauligeile;courtoulnes  is  nothioghot  worldliaciſc,draokeones,
good
