---
page: 336
pdf_page: 358
sortable_pagination_id: "336"
---
OY
344
Chap.  F.
A  Commentarie  </pou
good  fellox  ſhip,  formicatiov,a  tricke  of  youth.  Thus  men
putyi-
zards  vpon  their  vgly  finnes.  T  he  polititian  thatis  of  no  religion,
faith,that  wee  and  the  Papiſts  differ  notin  ſubſtance,  but  in  ſmall
circumſtances  :  and  that  if  they  erre,  it  is  but  in  ſmall  points,  But
00  the  contrary  ,weeare  to  elteeme  eucry  linne  tor  a  great  (inne,to  $
humble  our  ſelues  for  the  lea(t  (innes,  and  to  briog  our  ſelues  in
ſubieRion  to  God  inthe  lealt  ofour  ations.
Here  wee  are  taught  by  all  meanesto  maiptaine  the  puritie  of
ſound  religionw  harfoever
befallvs,  And  forthis  cauſe  we  are  tore-
{ſt  and  withltand  bps  opinion  that  ſhall  bee  broched,  1
divell
For  it  isthepolicy
of  thedivell
by  foiling
in  ſome  one  errovur,to
'  depraue  &  goofoundthe  whale
bode!
truth.  It  may  be  faid,how
may  wee
dilcerne  errour  from  ſound  dodrine,  conſidering  often-
t  mes  they  are  like,asleauenislike
dowe  ?  An/.  Leaven  iz  dilcerned
from  dowe,not  by  colour,but
by  taſte  :
even  fo  they  which  are  ſpi-  ;;
rituall,and  have  thegift  of  diſcerniog,direfed
by  the
of
faith,diſcerne
truth  from  falſhoad.  For  whatſoever  -
inl}  ooe
articleof  faith,or  againſt  any  of  the  commandements  of  thedeca-
loguezis  not  ſound
doArine,but  leaven.
Agaipe,  that  which  is  ſaid
of  falſe  dorine,
may bee  faid  pro-  #0
portionally  of  bad  manners.  Heere  therefore  we  my  bee  putin
minde
of  three  duties.  The  firſt,  to  refilt  and  withitand  eyery
particular  livne.  For  even  one  (inne  is  able  to  defile  the  whole
life  of  _—  oa
ſuthcient  nee  wa
ſweet
oyntment.
One
in  our  firlt  parents,
corruption  24
vpon
them  and  all  mankind,
yea  vpon  beauen  and  earth.  Hethat
makes  no  cooſcience  of  {ome  one  ſinne,  isguilty  of  the  whole
law,  lames  S.
Secondy,
wee  mult  doe  ourendeauourtothevttermoſt,tocut
off  cuery  bad  example  inthe  focicties  of  men,  For  one  bad  exam-  30
ple  is  ſatficient
to  corrupt
a  whole  family,  a  whole  towne,a  whole
countrey,  Theex
e  of  one  inceftuous  man,  was  ſufficient
to
corruptall  Corinth,  Therefore  P  a«/  faith,  Purge  owt  the  old  (raven,
2,Cor.  5.5.  Thelawof  Godis,
that  blaſ;
terers,&c.  ſhall  beput  todeath  :  the  reaſon  is,  chat  ewill  may  be  tk'1  35
ont
of  1/racl;that  is,theevill  of  wicked  example,  which  beiog  ſuf-
fred,{preads  abroadzand  doth  much  hurt.  The  barren  fig  tree mull
oO  Tong  barren,Lake  14.7.
T  hirdly,  wee  are  to
withſtand  and  cut  off  the  firſt  beginoings,
and  theoccaſions  ofenery  hn,  We  ſay  of  arrand  theeues,  that  hrlt  49
they
begio  to  praftile  their  wickednes  io  pinnes,  and  points.  For
this  caule;idleneſle,fulnetle  of  breadin  exceſliue  cativg;  Giakingy
and.
"_,
