---
page: 338
pdf_page: 360
sortable_pagination_id: "338"
---
345
Chap.y.
A  Commentarie  von”
and  they  are  not
ived  in  practiſe,  Forit  is  adutie  of  lovets
bopethe  beſt.  AndMhey  which  v{croſuſped  the  worle,  are  ofrner
deceived.  Againe,it  may  be  ſaid,  that  wee  mult  iu0ge  of  things  az
they  are  indeed,  Anſwer,  Tudgement  of  things,and  iudgementof
perſons  mult  be  dill  inguiſhed,  Of  things,vpright  iudgement  isto  s
tudge  of
them
as  they  are:  and  if  they  be  doubttal;toluſpend.
Now
our  1udgement  ofthe  perlonsof  men,mult  be  to  take  thingsin  the
better  part,as  much  as  pollibly  may  be.  Laſtly,it  may  be  alledged
that  wee  muſt  lowe  our  ne\:ghbour
as  our  ſelnes  :  and  that  we  deſpairein
reſpe&  of  our  ſelues,  A-ſwer.  We  are  todeſpaireinreſpetof  our  1
{clues,  becauſe  we  are  priuy  toour  owne  eltate:  but  we  are  not  pri-
uy  to  theellate  of  any  other  man  :  and  therfore  weare  to  hopethe
belt  of  them.  This  ſhewesthe.  fault  of  our  times:  if  any  pro
the  Goſpell  fall  vpon  frailtie,  there  arenumbers  of  men  that
wi
makeno  bones  of  it  to  condemnethemto  the  pit  of  hell,for  hypo.  15
crites  #  but  ſuch  perſons  arenot  carried  by  tie  ſpirit  of  Paw/,  who
hopes  the  beſt  of  them  that  fall.
Againe,  here  we  ſee  how  weare  to  put  aftiancein  men,  -We  we
to  put  athance  in  God  for  all  things  whatloeuer,  whether  con-
cerning  body  orſoule:  but  our  a
io  men,  mult  be  onely  for  2»
ſuch  things  as  they  are  able  to  performe.  Secondly,  weemu
afhance  in  God  abſolutely  for  himſelfe,  and  therefore
wee
lay,
]  belerme  in  God,  Cc,  but  ail  or  athance  in  men  whatſoever,nult
be  inthe  Lord,
When  Pax}  ſaith,  thathe  had  «ffiaxce  of  then  in  tbe  Lord,
he  15
ſhewes,  that  renewed  repentance  is  the  gift
of  God,  And  there
are
races
required
ynto  it,  Helping  grace,  and
grace.  Helpi  ——
wlerts
repentance,  Exciting
grace
the  willand  thedeed.
And  with-
out  t
God,
if  hee  fall,  cannot  repent,  and  30
recover  himſelfe,  They  therefore  aredeceiued,  who  thinke  that
has  an  as  rg
pe  EN  they  may  repent
when
they
will.
It  may  bedemanded,  wy  Par  vieth  milde  tearmes,and  doeth
not  excommunicare
the  Galatians?  An(w,  So  long  as  men  areu-  35
rable,meanes  mull  be  vied  torecouer  them.
T  he  ſheepe  or  oxe  that
goes  al}ray,mult  be  brought  home  againe,  Exod,  2  3.4.much  more
thy  neighbour.  Chrilt  himſelfe  brings  home  againe  the  lolt  ſheep,
and
(0.  mult  every  ſhepheard,E  z2ch.  34.4.  Now  the  Galatians  were
ig  all  likel;bood  perſons  curable:  and  therefore  not  to  beecut  off.  48
Forthe  cenſure  of  Excommunication  pertaines  to  them  al
whoſerecouery  there  is  no  hope.
Same
