---
page: 317
pdf_page: 339
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians,
Chap.s.
325
the  day  of  ourdeath  :  Chriſt  by  his  blood  having  made  a  way,
Hebr.10.19.
Thos  we  ſee  what  Chriſtian  libertieis.  Thevſe  followes.  The
Anabaptifts  gather  hence,that  amoog  Chriſlians
there  muſt  beno
s  _—
muſt  havepower  to  makelawes  befides  the  lawes
bot
this
power  they  haue  not,  becauſe  Chriſtians  bavea
free  vie  ofall  the  creatures
of  God  by  Chriſtian  libertie.  A»ſ.  We
muſt  diſtinguiſh  betweenethe  liberty  itſelfe,andthe  vſeof  it,  And
OI  authoritie  deales  not  with  the  libertie  which  is  in
10
ience,but
with  the  vie  of  it:  and  he  doth  neither  diminiſh
noraboliſh  the  vieof
any  of  the  creatures,but  reſtraines  the  abuſe,
andmoderatesthe
ouer  common  vie  for  the  common  good.  Thus
Magiſtracie
and  Chriſtian  libertie  may  ſtand  together:  and  thera-
ther  becauſelibertie  is  in  the  conſcience,
and  the  Magiſtrates  au-
#f  thoritie  pertaines  ro  the
.\Heereis  further  comfort
forallthe  godly  :  for  even  by  Chrilti-
wilidertie,  "their  conſciences  are  exempted
from  the  power  of  all
creatures,
men,  and  Angeles,  1;  Corinth.  7.23.  Tee  are  bought  with  a
picegbernnt  ſernants  of  men,that  is,  let  not  your  beartsand  conſci-
I  ances  Rand  in  ſubieRion  tothe  will  of  any  man.  Heretheofalles
tothe  ground  the  opinion  of  the  Papiſtes,  namely,that  thelawes
tadtraditions  of  tbe  Chorch  bind  conſcience  as  truly  and  certain-
hurthe
word  ofGod:  This  dofrine
is  not  of  God,  becauleit  is  |
Chriſtiaolibertie,
$.  0bieft.  1.  Rew.13.5.  Bee  ſubialt  to  the  higher  power:  for  conſcience,
Anſwer,  Conſcience  bere  is  not  in  reſpe  ofthe  lawes  of  the  Magi-
firate,
e&
ofthelaw
of  God,  that  biads  vs  in  conſcience
toobey
the  law  of  the  Magiltrate.  '
.  CONe11,  Heb.13.19.  Obey  them that  bane  the  onerſight  of  you  aud
tg
.  Anſw.  We-molt  be
fubiettothem  :
as  Miniſters
deliver  the  word  of  God  in  the  name  of  God  vnto  vs,
andthat  word  binds  cooſcience.  _  lawes  which  they
make
orderandcomelineſle  _
the  ſervice  of  God,are  to
_  brobeyed  for  the  avoiding  ot  ſcandall  and  conterype.
J  Obieft.  111.  A  thing  indifferent  vpon  the  commandement
of
the  Magiſtrate  ,
becomes  neceſſary.  A»ſwer,  It  is  true.  But  it
mult  be  obſerued,
that  neceſſitie  is  two  fold,  Externall,  Internall.
indthe  law  of  the  —_  —_—
ren  —_—
for  the  avoiding
of  externall  neceſlitie,
in
ne?  hp  tobe  and  for  the  avoiding  of  ſcandall,  O-
therwiſet  berhiog  init  ſelfe  is  not  neceſſary,  butremaines  ſtil]  in-
be
Gifferent,and  may  be  vicd  or  not  vied,if  contempt  and  ſcandal!
auvided.
