---
page: 12
pdf_page: 34
---
Chap.r;
A  Commentarie
pon
22
bemuſt  *  notteach
any  more,  or  any  other  thing  ,thenthat  which  is  in  the
*  Non  aliud
quid  amplius?
Apoſtle  pwhoſe  words  be  muſt  expound.
T  he  ſecond  anſwere  is,  that  topreach  otherwiſe,  is  to  preach
contrary,  Becauſe(as  they  ſay)precepts  and  dotrines  may  bee  de-
livered  if  they  be  diverſe,
and  not  contrary.
As  the  Goſpell  of  Iobn,  5
and  the  Aprca/yp,,were  written  after  this  Epiltle  tothe  Galatians,
which  are  diuers  toit,though  not  contrary\:the  like  they  ſay  of  the
canons  of  councells:  and  that  Paul,  Kow.  16.18,  put[way'  3Þbefide,
for  contrerie.  |  anſwer  thus  :  The  prepolition(mys)tranſlated
be-
lide  or  otherwiſe,  (ignifieth  thus  muc
ly.:  and wee are  not  x6
to  depart  from  the
lignification  of  the  words,vnlelſe  we  be
forced  by  the  text,
And  the
in  the  Romans  inhis
and
fullſenſe,  maſt  be  turned
thas:  0bſre  the
uber  of
oficrbejile
the  drift  rme  which  ye  hawe  learned,  And  Pauls  mind
ſhould
bee  obſerued,  f  ah  teach  any  other  divers,  or  diſltin&  dodtine,   5-
though  it  beenotdireRly  contrary.  The  Goſpell
of  /ob»  and  the
Apocalyps,  written  afterward,  =;  3n«rp  not  any  divers  doQtrine
pertaining  to  the  ſaluation  of  the  ſoule,  but  one  andthelame  in
ſubſtance,with  that  which  Px/  wrote.  The  Canons  of  Councels,
are  traditions  touching  order  and  comelineſle,and  they  preſcribe  20”
not  avy  thing,  as  nece(ſary  to  juſtification,  and  (aluation.  Againe,
the  Emba(ladour  that  ſpeakes  any  thiog  belide  his  commitlhon,  is
as  wel  in  fault,as  cms
econttary\:though  not  ſomuch.
T  he  ſecond  point  is,  the  puniſhment  [Let  him  be  accurſed]  Here
are  three  things  to  be  conſidered.  The  fir{t,  what  is  it  to  beaccur-  25
ſed  ?  Anſ.God  hath  giuen  tothe  Church,  the  power  of  binding,
and  it  hath  foure  degrees,  Admonition,  Suſpenfion  from  the  Sacra-
ments,  Excommunication,  Anathema,  And  this  laſt  isa  cenſure  or
isudgement  of  the  Church,whereby  it  pronounceth  a  man  ſeuered
from  Chriſt,and  adiudged  to  eternal  perdition,Row.  9.5.1  Cor.16,  30
22,  Andhee  is  here  ſaid  to  be  accurſed,  that  ſtands  ſubict  to  this
cenſvre.
The  ſecond  part  is,whoareto  beaccurſed?  An/,  Hainous
offenders,and  deſperate  perſons,of  whoſe  amendmientt  here  is  no
hope.  And  therefore  this  indgement  is  ſeldome  pronounced  vpon
any.
We  finde  but  oneexammple  in  thenew  Teſtament  :  Pa«/accur-  35
ſed  Alexander  the  Copper  -{mith;  2,79.4.14:  And  the  Church  at-
terward  accurſed  7«/\:a»  the  Emperour.  Other  examples  we  fiade
The  third  point,  how  the  Church  ſhould  accourſeany  man,  and
in  what  order?  Anſwer.|n  this  ation,  there  be  foure  iudgements.  49
The  firſt  is  Gods,  which  is  givenin  heaven,  whereby  be  doth  ac-
per--  4  |
curſe  obſtinate
and  noterious  offenders,  The  ſccond  iudgement,  |
