---
page: 342
pdf_page: 364
sortable_pagination_id: "342"
---
359
Chap.5-
A  Commentarie  won
Paw/accurieth  the  falſe  Apollles,  not  in  reſpeR  of  bis  owne  cauſe,
but  inreſpeRtof
thecauſe  of  God  ;  and  not  as  his  owne  enemies,
but  as  the  enemies  of  God.  Secondly,we  mult  diſtinguiſh
the
ſons  of  cvill  men.  Some  are  curable,aud  ſorne  againe  are  i
of  whoſeſaluation  thereis  no  hope.  Now  Pax/  direRs  his  impreca-
tion  agein(t perſons  incurable,
morn
es  wrouercs
ſome  extraordinary
i  ps  or
z(ast
and
ereſtofebe  Apoliic  id  in  ſundry caſcs)  and  hereupoo  he  cur.
2.7im  4.14;  I  birdly,we
men,  10
Dn  rl  uo  diſtinguiſh  ere
Some  are  carnall,  as  raſh  anger,  batred,  deſire  of
&.
ſome  againe  are  more
and  divine,  as  a  zeale  of  Godz
glory,  and  ofthe  ſafety  of  Gods  Church.  Now  7as/in
cing
the  curſe,  is  not  carried  with  a  carnall  affeRion,
but  with  a
n__
and  with  the  ſame  Spirit  by  which
he  z x
Fu
T  he  (ſecond  queſtion
is,  whether  we  mens  Our  enemies
as  Paxldid?  Anſm,  No:  for  we  have  not  the  like  Spirit  rodiſcerne
are  \:and  ourzcale
of  Gods
glory  is
40
and  cxr(e  mor.  If  we  dare  goe  beyond  thelimirs
of  this  rule,  we
cut
beaethepech  of
Cl,
Te  kyow
not  of  what  Spirit
yee  are,
9.55.
T  he  third
is,how  weſhould  victhei
_—_
_  be  diated  AN  =  war  rereo
Scripture  ?
An.
are
DEE
ESTAS
Goal
an
ing
ſentence
vpoa  the  enemies  of  God.
bn
1%
The  word  which  is  tranſlated,  4;/quier,  is to  be  conlidered
:  for
it-  ignifies  to  put  'men  out  of  their  ellace,  and
to  drive  them
———  as  enemies
doe  when  they  ſacke  and
ile  a  fowne,
By  this  we  (ce  that  the  dofrine  of  juſtification  by  workes
15
or  by  thelaw,  is  a  doctrine  full  of  danger.and
perrill,  becauſe  it
ſalvation
in  heaven.  Therefore
let  all  men  flye  from  the  religioo
of  he  ny  as  if  they  would  flyefrom-an  army
of  Spaniards
or
Cf
40
Comrariwiſe,they
that  would  prouide  well  for  themſclues  and
their  poltcrity,  and  plant  themſclues
in  a  good  Sy  marents
