---
page: 321
pdf_page: 343
---
PR
ou
the  Epiitletothe  Galatians,
Chap.
5.
s.
Before
Chriſt  it  waga  Sacrament,and  a
ſeale
of  the  righte-
of  faith,Rem.4.1  1.  aftzr
thedeath
of  Chrilt,tillthe  deltru-
of
the
T  emple,it  wasa  dead  ceremony,  yet  ſometime  vied  as
UL
adifferent.  Atter  the  deltroftion  of  the  Temple,whey
the
words
th
carry
thi
:  If  yeewill  becircomciſed  with
thiropinion,  that  circumciſion  ſhall  bee  voto  you  a  meritorious
capſe  of  your  ſaluation,Chrif
bal  profit  you  nothing.  T  he  vie.  Hence
it  followes,  that  the  doArine  of  iuſtihcatioa  by  workes,  is  an  ecr-
15
rogr  overturning  the  foundation  of
religion,  which  whoſoever  ob-
ſtinately  maintaineth,cannot  be  ſaved.  le  will  be  ſaid,thisis  true  of
ceremoniall  works,  but  not  of  morall  works.  Anſwer.  Yea  euecn  of
morall.  Forthat  which  Paw!  faith  here  of  circumnciſion,be  ſpeakes
of  the  whole  law,vcrle  4.  Tee  are  aboliſhed  from  (bÞrſt,who-
me
areinſhified  by  the  law,  And  circumcilion  mult  be  conlidered
wan
obligation  to  the  obedience  af  the  whole  law.  Againe,it  may
de  faid,this  is  true  ofthe  works  of  nature,  but  nat  of  work  of  grace.
Al.  Yez,even  of  workes  of  grace:  tor  the  Galatians  were  regene-
tate,and  therfore  looked  not  to  be  iuttified,and  faucd  by  the  works
15  ofnature,but  by  works  of  grace.
Secondly,hence  we  gather,that  toadde  any  thing
to  the  paſlion
wameri  -
>}  ouriaſtification,and  (al  —  &  make
Chill  yopraticable,  For  be
mult  be  a  perfe&  Sauiour,or  no
Savi-
our:  he  admitsneither  partner,nor  deputiein  the  worke  of  our  re-
jodemption.  Andthe  graceof  God  admits  vo  mixture  or  compo-
tion  with  any  thing  that  is  of  vs.  Grace
is 00
grace,  vulelſeit  be
ziven  caery  way.  T  berefore  the  Popiſh  religion  isa  damaa-
religion  :
becaule  withthe  merit  and  {atisfaRtion  of  Chrilt,  it
loynes  humane  merits  and  ſatisfaions,in  the  caſe  of  ouriuftifica-
45  on  It  may  be  alleadged,that  whe  Popiſh  religion  maintaines  all
articles
concerning  Chriſt,  as  we  doe.  Anſwer,  le  doeth  fo  in
-  word:  but  withall  it  addes  to  the  foreſaid  articles  thedoArine  of
humane  merites  and  fatisfactions,  which  make  void  the  death  of
Cheilt,  Againe,Papilts  alledgethatit  is  the  glory  of  Chriſt,  that  he
merits  for  vs,  and  withall  makes  vs  tomerit  tor  ourelues  ;  as  it  is
theglory.of  an  Emperour  tomake  other  kings  vader  him.  Anſwer,
lt  is  age  the  glory  of  the  Emperour  to  make  kings  as-partners
Y-  2
with
