---
page: 322
pdf_page: 344
---
Chap.y...
ACommenteriblyyon
332
with  him  in  bis  kingCome.  And  works  ſet  vp  as  meritoriouseag.
ſes  of  ſaluation,d\ſhonour  Chrilt,for  they  make  him  voprofitable,
as  Pas!  here  teacheth.
Popith  religion  therefore  is  in  no  wiſe,
in  any  place  to  beetol-
lerated,  where  it  may  beeaboliſhed:  but  it  isto  be  wiſhed  thatit  #
were  baniſhed  from  towne  and  countrey:  and  fludents  aretobee
warned  with  great  circumſpeQion  to  reade  Popiſh  writers,  For
no  good  can  be  looked  tor  of  that  religion  that  makes  Chriſt  yg.
rotitable.
e  Laſtly,
we  are  heere  taught  tocontent
our  ſclues  with  Chriſta.  18
lone,and  withhis  workes,merits,  and  fatisfaRtions.  For  in  bim wee
are  complete,Col.2.10.
T  he  confirmation  of  the  ſentence  followeth  ,  7  Pan!  ſay  it:
therefore  it  isſo.  This  kind  of  reaſoning  may  ot  ſeeme  ſtrange:
for  the  Apollles  in  writing  and  preachivg,  had  the  divine  andin-  rs
fallible  aſliftance  of  the  ſpicit,ſo  as  they  could  not  erre.  This  muſt
bee  held  aza  4  in  religion:  and  being  denicd,tbereisno
certaintie  ofthe  Bible,
3  For  Iteitifie  againe  to  enery  man  that  is  circumciſed,
that  ®
he  is  bound  to  keepe  the  whole  law.
4  Teare  aboliſhed  from  Chriſt,  whoſoeuer  are  iuſtified  by  the
law,  ye  are  fallen  from  grace.
The  meaning.  P  as!  ſaith,/  rrflific  againe;  becauſe  hee  hath  ſpo-
kev  thus  much4n  eftet  before,Gal.  3.10;
Th.4  tcremmoſed  ]  who  is  of  opinion  of  the  Falſe  apoſtles  that
will  becircumciſed,  and  looke  for  iullification  thereby.
Bound  to  the  whole
law  that  is,
to  the  whole  ceremoniall  law,
to  jg
the  iudicialtlaw,and  tothe  whole  moraltlaw.  And  further,boond
ia  r<{peR  of  juſl;fication,andlife,to  doe  all  things  in  the  law;  For
he  that  vall  be  iu{tified  by  oneaRt  of  the  law,is  bound  to  performe
the  relt  for  his  iullification.
Aoelifhed  fram  Chriſt  that  is,Chrilt  is  become
an  idle  and  empty  35
Chriltvaco  you.
V'Vhoſecer  are  infhified  by  the  law  that  is,  are  of  opinion  that
they  arcto  bee  juſtified  by  the  workes  of  the  law.  For  indeed  8
ſinner  cannot  bee  juſtified  by  the  law,  but  onely  in  his  owoefalle
40.
Opinion.
Grace  that  is;the  lave,and  fauour  of  God.
Therelolution,  The  third  verſc  isa  confirmation  of  thgreaſon
in.
