---
page: 345
pdf_page: 367
sortable_pagination_id: "345"
---
the  Epiſtle  vo  the  Gulitians,
Ch#p:5.
333.
doe  eraſes  perraines
ro  the  yaderſtanding.  Apaine;  be
of  ſame  rhat-rbey
ave  puſfed
vp  is  rhe  mind
of  the  fleſh,  Cileſſ.
2.18,  —edrrmags
Ephelians  tbe  renewed  in  the  fprrit
of  their
03  3%
mb  Spb  ny
5,  +  The-meanitip  then  of  the  ruteis  this;  vie  not  the  benefit  of
ſprite  liberty  as  un  oceafion  ro-the  fiely
fo  —
tothe  fleſh.  Here  I  confider  three  things;  what  is  the  abuſe  0
jr  Aitw'r  0
is
thisabuſecs  be  found  ?  and  what  is  the  right
is  The  rt  quedion  isg:  when  {8  eho/tbbſe  of
Chriltiae  hberty  #
'T'o  it  1b  aw  Doralion
of  Beſhily  28d  carnal  liberty  #
thavis  dove  3.  wakes,
T  be  firlt  is,  when  men  make  more  things
=-
indifferent
they  God  ever  made.  T  hys  (he  Coriothiahs
vicd  fotni-
cution  as  a  thing  indifferevt.  1.Cor.6,T  o  many  iitheſedayes  druir:
1;  kennefſeand
bur  wrbiay  indifferent.
Ment  vienor  to
EIA  WR  emo.
Iythigke,thatiſthethiog
be  indifferent  itrit  ſelfe;then  alfo  the  vie
ofit  is  indifferent,  ——arprrpns  rt
en
perner'y  __
mt
yaotrtnge
Ve
pee  dn  any
envoy
w  of
Gagrindthnmr  Wh:  31  EC
ie
ourliberry  loakisſes
bywa
immoterat  oe
ofthe
pi
many  gertlernenand
others
en  they  turne
yg  Araatiow'idto  af
occoperion.  Secondly;  the  pifts  of  God  areim-
ws  on  dnt  earns  W  rar  rep  in
knw
(61  biyſh.  THir
dy  ;in
rep
thet»  for  every  tawistovitibe
giſtr  of  God  according  to  his
#  addcondition,  They  then  offcad;
that  being  but  meane
$5
and  living  by  trades,yet  for  their  diet  and  apparel.
are  as  great'gen-
tlemen  and
een
11
Thirdly;
libertie  iv  abuſed:  when'  the  bleflingsof  God  are  made
ioſtruments,and  (atit  were)  flags  avd'  banners  to  difplay  our  riot,
$5  vanity,oftentation,pride\:for  this  cauſe  ſondry  things,  wherof  ſome
aeindifferent  in  thertſelues,are  condemned;  //a.3.15.
The  ſecond  queſtion  is,  where  is  this  abuſe  ?
An/wer.  Even
wmong  vain  England;  It  is  the  faſhion
of  men  totake  vatother-
elves  5  tolleration  of  _—  ,  ſome
vpon
the  patience  of  God)
©  other&vponthe  dofrine  of  the  graciovscteRtion  of  God,  fayivgs
that  they  will  live  as  they  lift  :  becavſe,  if  they  be  eleRted  rofalua-
they  doe.  And  fore.
tiou;they  ſhall  certainly  be  ſaved  w  barſocuct
thers
