---
page: 325
pdf_page: 347
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap!s.
ZZ)
no  conſcience  to  keepe  ſome  one  commandement,  if  occalion
be  offered,  will  breakeany.Heoce  ic  tollowes,  that  true  regenerati-
on  is  that  which  is  a  ln  n  and  change  according  to  the
whole  law  of  God,andcontainesio  it  the  ſeedes  of  all  goo  duties.
x  Chrilt  faith,
He  that  is  waſbedis  all  cleane,  [ob.1  3.10,  loſics  twrued  10
God  according  tothe  whole  law.  Z
achary  and  Eliz.tbeth  walked  wn  ali  the
commendements  of  God  whont  reproofe.Luk,  1  D  amd  faith,  He  /b..ll  not
be  confonnded,
when  be  bath  reſpelt  to  all  the  commandements  of  God,  Pal.
119.6.
On  the  contrary,  he  which  hath  many  excellence  thiogs  in
zo  him,  ifhe  live  in  the  need  oflome  pos
commandement,
is  ound
in  none,
nay  i
de
he  is  guilty  ©
Herod
did  man
oy  gy  nb  open
:  becaule  be  lived  in  inceſt
Mak,c.20.  The  diuellis
able  to  bring  a  man  toperdition  as  well
by  one
many.
15  Whereas  Paul
laith,/fye
be  inffified  by  the  lawyyt  are  abeliſved  from
Chin
:  Fir(t
,  thatthe  Law  and the  Golpelare  noe  one  in
ubftance
of
inc,as
the  Papilts  teach  :  for  they  ſay  the  Goſpel
ianothing  but  the  law  made  more  perfect,  and  plaine  :  which  if  it
weetrue,  a  man  might  be  iultified  both  by  Chriſt  and  the  law,
10  which  Pax/faich  cannot  be.Secondly,l  gather  hence,  that  it  is  a
mecre  deice  of
mans  wit,to  lay  that  Chrilt  by  bis  death  and  palli-
camerited,that  we  ſhould  merit  By  our  owne  workes  our  iultif-
cation
and  faluation,  For  ifthis  weretrue,  that  the  merit  of  our
workes,
were  the  fruite
of  Chrills  paſſion,  P«»/  would  not  haueſaid
5  that  uſtification
by  the  law,ſhould  aboliſh  Chriſt  vato  vs.  Forthe
cauſeand
the  effeR,  both  ltand  together  :  whereas  Chrills  merit,
andthemerit  of  our  workes
euen
as  fire  and  water,  And  no
maruell,  For  the  reaſon  why
Chrilt  meriterh,is  the  Perſonallvoion
ofthe  Godhead  with  the  manbood  :  which  vaion,becauſe  it  is  not
jo  tobe  found
in  any  meere  man,nceither  is  there  any  trueand  proper
merit
ro  be  found,
Whereas  Pex  (faith,  Tee  are  fallen  from  grace,  ſome  gather,  that
the  children  of  God  may  fall  quite  from  the  favour  of  God.  Anſwer.
Men  are  ſaid  to  be  ynder  grace,  two  waies.  Firltzin  the  iudgeiment
If
offafallibiliry
-  and  tbus  onely  the  Elect  are  vnder  the  grace
of
$,
God.  Secondly,io  the  iudgement  of  Chriſtian  charitie:  and  thus
Uthat  profeile  Chriſt,  (thoughindeede  bypocrites)are  vnderthe
gaceot  God,  Andinthis  ſents  Pax!  (aith,that  the  whole  Church
of  Galatia  is  vnder  the grace  of  God.  And  hay  por
laid  to  firll  from
©  grace,  not  becauſe  all  were  indeede  vnder  the
fauaur  of  God,
andat  length  caſt  out  of  it  :  but  becauſe  God  makes  it  manifelt  to
mea,that  they  were  neuer  inthe  favour  of  God.  Thus  Chriſtsene-
Y  4
mics
