---
page: 348
pdf_page: 370
sortable_pagination_id: "348"
---
Chap.5.
A  Comment  arie  pon
but the
and  our  neighbour  by  nature,  and  that  we  want
ſecondacteor
the  exerciſe  of  love,  which  they  lay  is  from  grace,
Further;l  adde  that  loue  inclwes  ri  to  wiſh  wellto  or  nexybboor  i
for
this  is  the  formall  and  proper  eff:&  of  love,  and  all  this  is  done
when  we  thinke  well,  ſpeake  and  doe  well,  and  that  inreſpe@
not  onely  of  the  body,  but  alſo  in  reſpeRt  of  the  ſoule  of  oor
neighbour.  Laſtly  1  fay,  that  loue  to  our  neighbour  muſt  bei
the  Lord.  Becauſe  weare  to  love  him  in  reſpet  that  he  is  acres.
ture  of  God,  and  beares  his  image:  and  not  in  reſp:  of  honour,
pats  pleaſure,which  we  receive  from  him.  Loue  for  ſoch  endy,  |,
1s  ſelfeloue
Thethird  queſtion  is,  what  is  the  vſc
of  love  ?  Af.  It  ſerves  to
make  vs  ſcruiceableto
our  neighbour.  Lowe  ſeckes  wot  ber  owne  thing),
a.Cor.1  3.  Chriſt  was  ſeruantto
his  enemies  in  bearing  their  fines
vpon  the  croile.  Paxl  that  was  free  from  all,  became
ſerwant  toall,  tn  5
wr  /ome.1.Cor  9.19,  To  Chriſt  weare  to  doeferuice  :
and  hthath
put  our  neighbor
in  his  (tead,ſo
as  that  which  is  doneto  ourneigh-
bour;ſhall
be  done  to  him:  our  neighbour  therfore  muſt  be  ſerved
of  vs;  and  this  is  not  againſt  our  liberty.  For  wee  aro  free  inward-
ly  in  conſcience,
yet  intheoutward  vie  of
our  liberty,
we  mult  be,,
{cruantsto  men,
Thevle,  If  we  examineour  lives  by  this  rule,we  ſhall  find  that
thereis  very  littlepuwer
of  religion  among  men.  There  are  (xe
forts  of  men  that  hue  ia  the  breach
of  this  rule.  T  he  firtt  are  vſorers,
who  lend  tor  aduantege,  when  they  ſhould  lend  freely  to  rhemthat  ,,
arein  need;theſe  ſeruethemſelues  and  make  a  prey  of  all.  The  (&-
cond  fort  are  ingroiſers,  who
in  commodities  to  inrich
thernſclues,  T  he  rhird  fortarei  _  of  what  degree  foever,
that  ſpend  thar  time  in
cating,drinking;ſleeping,gaming:
fuch  are
but  voproitable  burdens
ofthe  earth.  T'o  this ſort  |  referre  beggars  ,,
and  vagabonds.  Thefourth  ſort  are  Riotous  perſons  that  vſetogo
from  alebquſe  to  alehouſe,  from  tauerne  to  taverne,  and  milpend
that  whereby  they  ſhould  maintaine  theit  farmities,and  be  ſervice-
able  to  their  country.  Thefitrſort
are  Tradeſmen,whoin  rhcir  des-
lings  vie  lying,dilſembling  fravd,  iniultice.  T  hey  ſercke  nothing  ;5
but  their  privateadaantage.  And  this  kind  of  men  abounds  in  the
world.
T  he  la(t  ſort  are  drowſje  and  carnall  Proteſtants,
who  oacly
ſeeke  thethings  ot  this  world,  and  acuer  ſo  much  as  give  good  ex-
ample
to  ſergantsor  children;or
any  good  counſel.  Betide  allthrs,  |
it  is  the  common  faultof  the  world,  for  ten  to  ſeroe  themltlues,  49
according  to  the  common  ſaying,  Excry  man  for  him  elf+,and  God  for
vial,  And  the  belt  men  that  arcyifthey  examinethemfelues,  ſhall
