---
page: 35
pdf_page: 57
sortable_pagination_id: "35"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.1.
45
muſtbee  put  intovs,  before
any  inſpication  of  heavenly  motions
caatake  place.Yetafter  weare  once  borneanew,good  motions  and
deſires  put  into  our  hearts,may  bee  the  preventing}  grace,  for  the
doing  of  ſundrie  good  works.
5  _  Theſecondyqueſtionis,  whetherthe  will  of
?av/were  an  agent,
orcavſe  in  the  etfeing  of  his  firlt  converſion  ?:  Auſwer,  No:  Sciip-
turemakes  two  ſorts  of  converſion:  one  Paſſixe,when  maniscon-
uerted  by  God,  In  this,man  is  but  a  ſubieR,to  receive  the  imprel-
ſion  of  grace,and  no  agent  atall.  Forin  the  creatiog,ſettiog,  or  im-
10  printing  of  righteauſnetle  and  holineſſein  the  heart,  will  can  doe
nothing.  The  ſecond  converſion  is  Awe,  whereby  man  being
canuerted
by.  God,doth  further  turne  &  convert  himſclte  to  Gad,
in  all  bis  thoughtes,words,and  deeds.
T  his  converſion  isnot  onely
ofgrace,  nor  onely  of  will;  but  partly  of  grace,and  partly  ofwill:
15  yet  ſo  as  grace  istheprincipall  ageot,and  will  but  the  inftrument
ofgrace,  For  beciog  firſt  turned  by  grace,  we  then  can  movue,and
deurnequrſelues.  Andthusthereisa  cooperation  of  aians  will
Serm.2  5.de
with  Godsgrace.  And  A«ften  ſaid  truly,  Hee  that  made  thee  without
verbis  Apolt.
thregdoeth  not  ſane  thee  without  thee.
20
Thethirdqueſtionis,  whether  God  did  offerany  violence  to
Panls  minde  and  willin  hisconuerſion,  An/wer,  Thereis
a  double
violence,or  coaftion:  One,which  doeth  aboliſh  all  conſenr  of  will,
and  this  he  vicd  not.  The  other  drawes  out  a  conſent  fromthe  wil,
by  cauling  it  ofan  vowilling  will;to  become  willing,  This  coaRi-
25  on  or  viotence,  God  offcred  to  Pa/,and  in  this  ſente,they  which
!  cometo  Chrilt,are  ſaid  to  be  drawne,  lob.  6.45.
G4
The  fourth  queſtion  is,  wherein  tands  the  efficacie  of  thepre-
venting  grace,yhereby  Pax!  was  effeQtually  converted  ?  eLnſwer,
The  Councdllof  Trent,  and  ſundrie  Papilles,  inclinetothis  opt-
30  nion,totbinkethat  it  ſtands  is  che  exent,io  thatthe  will  of  man  ap-
pliesitſelfeto  thegrace  which  God  offereth,  Bat  then  the  eftica-
cie  of  grace  mult  bee  from  mans  will:  andthen  man  hath  ſome-
thing  whereofto  boaſt,  and  bee  is  to  thanke  himſclfe  for  the  grace
of  God.Other  Papilts  place  the  efficacy  of  grace  in  thecongruitie,
35  or  aptneſſeofmotions,cr  heavenly  perſfvalions,  preſented  to  the
mind  of  the  man  that  is  to  be  converted,  But  this  opinion  alſo  is
deaoidof  truth.  Forthere  is  noefficaciein  any  motions  or  perſwa-
ſioas;tilthere  be  a
change,  &  new  creation  of  the  wil.  The  true  an-
{wer  is  this.  Outward  meanes  are  effeQual,becavſe  they  are  ioyned
49  with  the  inward  operation  of  the  ſpirit.  Inward  grace  is  effeQuall,
becauſe  God  addes  tothe  firſt  grace,the  ſecond
prace,  Forhaving
giventhe  powerto  belceue,  &  repent;he  giues  allo  the  will  andthe
D  4
deed
