---
page: 330
pdf_page: 352
---
Chap.5,
*'
A  Commentariewyon
and  errovius.  For  faith  is  the  cauſe
of  loue,and  lout  isthe  fruite  of
faith.  1.74#1,1.5.
Lowe  ont  of  a  pure  heart  ,good  con(cience,  and  faith  ww.
fained.  Now  euery  cauſeasit  is  acauſe,  bath  his  force  and  effica.
cy  in  itſelfe,  and  receivesno  forceor  efhcacie  from  his  effeQ,  Se»
condly,true  taith  is  lively  andeffetuallin  it  ſelfe  and  bath  apecy.  ,
liar  forme  of  his  owne,  and  that  is  acerten  power  to  a
Chrilt  inthe  promiſe.
For  in  faith,  there  are  ewothings,
and  epprebenſron,  which ſome  call  application,  or  ſpecial  affiance,
which  athance  becauſc  the  Papiſts  cut  off,they  are  conſtrained  to
makeaſupply  by  loue  Thirdly,  the  operation  of  faith  {according  10
tothe  doctrineof  the  Papilt)isto  Prepare
and  diſpoſe  a  (innerto
his  futureiaſtification  Now,  if  this  operation  be  fromloue,  then
loueis  beforeiuſtification  :  and  that  cannot  be  :  becauſe
(as
teach)iuſtification  (lands  in  love.  Love  thereforeis  not  the  forme
of  faith.  They  alleadge  for  themſelues  thisvery  Text  in  hand,  15
where  it  is  ſaid,  faith  workerh  by  lawe  :  or  (  a5  they  tranſlateit)  farbir
ated  and  mooned  byloue.  Anſwer,  T  he  meaniog  of  the  textis;that
faith  is  effeuall  in  it  ſelfe:  and  that  it  ſhewes  and  puts  foorth
hisefficacy  by  loue,  as  by  the  fruite  thereof.  Andit  cannot  hence
bee  gathered,
that  faith  is
aRed  and  mouuecd  by  louez
as  by  a  for-  20
mall  cauſe.
Againe,  they  alleadge,  [owes  2.26.  As  the  bodie  is  dead  without  the
fririe  :
[214  faith  without  workes.  Anſwer  1.  The  ſoule  of  man  isnot
the  forme  of  his  body,  but  of  the  whole
man.  2,  Spoie  may  #8
well  ſignifie  breath,or  breathiog,as  theſoule.  And  ſoit  carriesa  fit  25
ſenſe.  Forasthe  bedywithour  breechgi  dead.,and  it  ſhewes
it
(elfe
to be  alive
by  breathing  :  ſofaith  that  is  without  workes,  is
dead,
andit  ſhewes  it  ſelfeto  bealive  by  works.  3.  Thereis
afalſe  com-
poſition  of  the  wordstobe
conſidered  :  fairb  that  is  without
worky!,
i  dead:  is  true:  but  to  ſay,  ferh  is  dead  without  workes  (as  though  30
workes  gauelife  to  faith)  is  falſe;  and  not  the  meaning  of  5./ame,,
but  the  former  onely.
Againe,the  Papiſts  hence  gather,  that  faith  and  love  areioynt
cauſes  inthe  juſtification  of  a  (inner,  and  that  faith  worketh  love
men  before  God.  But  this  interpretation  is  agaiolt  5
io  ioſlifying
the  white  bepach  this  Epiſtle,  in  which  Pa«/  prooues  that  there
is  a0iuſtification  by  the  law,  c.5.  v.  4.  and  therefore  no  iuftifica-
tion  by  love.  Againe,Pas/  faith,  Row,3.21.  that  rigbreeuſneſſe  wres
wealed  without  the  law  :  and  therfore  without  love.  And  againe,that
wee  are  made  the  rigbteonſmeſſe  of  (brift,  as  Chriſt  is  made  our  func  #
namely,  by  imputation,  and  therefore  not  by  infuſion  of  love,  3.
Cor.5.21.  Thirdly,  faith  iuſtifes  by  apprehending  Chriſtiane
promuc;
