---
page: 354
pdf_page: 376
sortable_pagination_id: "354"
---
Chapss-
M\:Commentarie
pou
.362
io\:tſelfe
be  freeineefpet  of
mans  authoritie  :  yet  isnot  thepubli-
thing
of  faith,andthe  profeſſion  of  conſcience  treein  like  ſort,  but
it  tandsfubie  tothe  power  ofthe  Magiſtrate.
T  he  third  rule,  Enery  man  m  bi  place,  ſprevally  teachers  muſs  ſet
es  10  build  the  Chimch,  Ind,  4.20.  Epbeſ,  4.12.  Indeed  the  g
wrothis
to  be  deferided:  but  marke  how.  Thetruth  muſt  becon-
feiſed,  when  timeand  occation  ſerues,  without  oppolition  :  this
done,
all  contentions  laid  alide,we  muſt  (er  our  ſelues  ro  build  the
Church.  And  the  rather  Miniſters  of  Gods  word  in  England
mult  remeraber
this  :  becauſe  while  weeare  (triving  among  our  19
ns  rn T9  of  difference,the  Papilt  our  common  ene»
7;
ouching
ciaul  peace,it
mult  beremembred,  that  the  peace  and
-  ſtood
in  this,that  it  was  made
the  ſeat-of
GudsSanRuary
and  thethroneof  ivuſtice,  P/alm.  122,  When  the  15
arke  was  in  the  houſe  of  Obed-Edom
all  things
with  him,
Now  inthe  New  Teſtament,  the  preaching  of  the  Gofpell,  inuo-
cation  of  Gods  name,  with  the  vſe  of  the  Sacraments,  come-in
theroomeoftbe  SanRuary,  Cillpeace  then  is  maintained,when
men  yeeld  tubietiou  tothe  Goſpel  ot  Chrilt,  which  brings  peace  19
to  allthat  receiueit.
af
Touching  bou/bold  peace,  givetwo  rules.Onc  is,that  gavernew:
of  faxn/1er  muſt  cr  ge  and  compell  all-under  them  to  admin  farrbelin  9ut-
wardly,  )rhe  PE
the  exerciſes  of  fauth,vepe
ur  ance  newobrs
dence.  Thus  did
,Gen.1  7  and  /oſuac.24.  T  hey  thatdoe  15
not  firſt  ofal  conſent  io  Chrilt;cannot  conſent  among  themſelves,
Secondly,
it  muil  beoblerued,
that  afamily  is  the  ſchoole
of  God,
ja  which  hee  will  exercife
our  taith,  invocation,  loue,
patience;
eg  ningten  Andthere  is  more  vertueto  bee  ſeene  inthe
wellordering  of  a  family,thenia  thepretended  holincile  of  Mon-  16
kiſh  cloilters.
Thus
we  ſee  how  we  are  to  maintaine  the  vnitie
of  the  ſpirit  in
the  bond  ofpeace.For  the  better  inforciag  of  this  dutic,  P.a-zEpb.
4-4.-giues  ſeven  reaſons:  One  >  ran  hope  ofeteroall
lie,one  Lord,one  faith,one  baptiſme,one  Father  ofall.  [t  may  be  15
ſzid,
we  arcat  peace,whatneedsallehis  adoc  ?  Arſwner.  T  he  peace
of  manyzis  peace  in  drunkennelle;{called  gocd  fellow{hip),)peace
in  prophaneneiſe,8ewickednes,  1'bisis  the  diuek  peace,whcre  be
beares  the  ſway.  The  peaceof  which  1  pow  ſpeake,  is  4»  (be  Lord,
and  in  the  true  worſhipof
God  :  of  which  reade  /ſa.  :.where
men  40
arcſaid  hand  in  hand  togoevp  to  the  Mountaine  of  the  Lord;that
they  mey  beare  bis  wilhandioz  otly  obey  it.
hes
i7
