---
page: 334
pdf_page: 356
---
Chap..
AConmentarie  open
342
8.  wicked  that  calleth  you.
The  meani
his
opinion  of  juſtification  by  the  workes  of
the  law,  is  not
ps
bath  called  you  from  bondage  to
liberty.
The  ſcope.  Paw  here  meetes  with  a  conceit  ofthe  Galatians,  *
which  was  »
his:  Why  dolt  thou
ſo  often  and  ſo  ſharpely
vs  ?  for  we  hold  nothing
{t  cooſcience,  but  are
of
the  thing  which  weſay,  To  this  Pa»/anſwers
here:  Aga  wh
i  not  of  God  t  becauſe  it  is  |  egainſt  che
calling  of
God  for
calls  you  to  liberty  :
and  this  your  opinion  drawes  you  into
Here  we  ſee  the  cauſe  of  mens  declio
from  God  2nd  his  word,
and  thatisthis:
Men  deny  credence  to  Gads  word,  andliſento
es
jons,and  Tofall  away.  Thus  Exe  fell  in  theeftate
litniog
to  the  falſe
perſwaſions  of
divell.  The  *
en  Lemos  i  thee  prion  a  preſumption
hO  ehy  Chon  cantect  denn  and  that  Ged  will  not  leave  his
de  old  heſdop  tbe  Md
many  CRY.
No  reallats
chat
i  ro
zy
thei
prai
end  nile  rt  ww
be  maintained.
|f  men  now  adaies  ;,  f |
Sake:  and  riot,  as  others  doe,they  ſhallbe
willnot
:  and  that  comes  vpon  a  perſwalion,
that
the  outward
and  notorious
crimes  which  are
Ee  eeget
mentioned  andcondemnedin  the  law.  Thus  the  whole  world  is
miſled  by  blind  perfwaſions.
jo  |  -
Secondly,  hence  we  learne  to  cloſe  vp  our  eyes  (as  it  were)and
abſolutely  to  follow
the  call  of
God,and  to  ubieR
all  the
ers  of  ut  ſoules  vato'it.  Thus  did  Abraham
when  be  was
to
goe  he  knew  oot  whether,  and  Pa/  withoot  vin  FRRRMENS
kindly  Faw
the  lh  rmagde  He  Þ
af
by
of  juffihcation
draes  vs  intdhondage.  In  like  ſort  God  calls
vs  to  free  julbificat-
on:
;  and  therefore  hn
doAtrinoe  of  humane  ſatisfaRtions  and  ofthe
mit
