---
page: 358
pdf_page: 380
sortable_pagination_id: "358"
---
Chap.  -
A  Commentarie  pou
walkiog  ,  or  by  the  courſe
of  his  life,  which,
if  it  bee  carnall,  it
ener  pu
to  becarnall:  if  it  beſpirituall,  it  hewes  himto
be
ſpicitual
The  benefit  that  ariſeth  by  the  keeping
of  the  rule,  followes  in
theſe  words,7ee
ſhall  not  frlfill
the  luſts
of  the  fleſs.
$15
Fleſo  ]  T  becorruption  of  nature,theroot  of
all  ſinnes,
-]lnordinate  motions
in  the  mind,  wil,and  affeRions.  Thug
y  is  luſt  cakeninthetenth  commandement,
which  condem.
netb  the  firſt  motions  toenill,
GI  Ges
Fulfill  ]FulfilliogNis  not  a  ſimple  doing
the  accom-
tof  will:  acallo
pliſhing  of  luſt  wit
tofinne.
A  queſtion.  How  -farre  doeth
the  childeof
inthe
luſt
of  the  fleſh?  Anſwer.  He  is  allaulted
by  thelufts  of  che  fleſh;
but  be  doth  not  accowpliſh  then.  09-4019  wwe  E2veSSY  =
15
intheat.
time  tbe  child  of  Godconſent  to  tbe  Juſles
of  his  fleſh,  it  is  botix
part,  and  againſt  his  purpoſe,  becauſc
he is  overcarried.  Likewiſe  9
the  «{7,or  execution
ef  lyſt,  is  not  ordinarily
aud  vſvally  in  the  child
of  God  :  If  atany
time  hee  fall,  ou  faywith
Pax,  dee  that:
which
bate.  Lallly,
pi
inewll
doth  potbetalithechild'
of  God:  becauſe  vpon  his  fall  he  recouers  himſelfeby  newrepen-
gre  In  this  ſenſe  S.  /ob»aith,  Hee  that  is  borne  of  God,  ſumerndt,  1g
1,  Job»  3.9,
T  he  vſe,  Hence  it  followes,  tbat  the  luſt  of  the  fleſh
is  inthe
childe
of  God  tothe  death  :  and  conſequently  they  doe  nor  fol-
611  the  law,  neither
can  they  bee  iuſtified  thereby,
as  Popiſh  do-
Arineis.
30
Secondly,our  dutic  isnot  to  accompliſh
the  luſts  ofthe  fleſt,but
to  refill  them  tothevttermoſt,Row.  1  3.14.
T  birdly,
beere  is  comfort  for  the  ſeruantzof  God.  Someman.
may  ſay,l  am  vexed  and  turmoiled  with  wicked  thoughts  and  de
ſires,ſo
as  |
feare  |  am  not  Gods  child.  1  anſwer  againe,  for  allthis  35
deſpaire  not.  Forzif  thou  hate  and  deteſ}  theluſts,  that  are  in  theet
if  thou  reſiſt  them,  and  wage  battell  againſt  them  :  if  being  0-
vertaken  at  any  time,  thourecouer  thy  felfe  by  new  repentance,
they  ſhall  never  belaid
to  thy  charge  to  condemoation,
Kew.  8,  1.
It  is  heeremade  a  prerogatiue  of  Gods  childe,  -when  the  luſts  of  40:
the  flcſharein  him,  not  to  accompliſh  them,  or  to  live  in  ſubieRi-
onto  them,
aig  Fo
