---
page: 337
pdf_page: 359
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.5.
343
and  ſwilling,riot,and  vanitic  in
appare!l,  are  be  ſoppretled  in  e-
very  Bros  the  breeders  of  re  7  —
*P
On  the  contrary,as  one  poynt  of
euill  doQtrine  brings  with  it
many  other:  ſo  any  one  little  grace  of  God,  brings  many  other
withit.  Theemtranceimto
Gods  word  guees  light,  Pſalme  119.130,  In
thisreſpet  Chrilt  ſaith,
The
kingdome  of  braven  is  [the  learen,  bidde
in  three  peckes  of  meals  :  becauſe  Gods  kingdome  is  ſetvpinthe
heart
at  the  firſt  vpon  very  ſmall  beginnings,  Marth.1;3.33.  This
mult  teach  vs  to  vie  the  meanesot  our  faluation,
and  notto  bee
1  diſcouraged,  though  wee  haue  in  vs  but  ſome  (mall  beginnings  of
Gods  grace.
Io  1  haze
an  affiance
in  you  tn  the  Lord,  that
yee  will  bee
no
atherwiſe  minded  :  but  he  that  troubleth  you,ſhall  beare  his  indg-
15  ment  ,whoſoeuer  he  bee.
The  ſenſe.  In  the  Lord]  by  thegraciousalliltance  of  God,who
no  doubt  will  giuea  bleſſing  tomy  Miniltery.
No  otherwiſe  minded  ]  that  is,  thinke  no  otherwiſe  then  ye  haue
16  done,  and  ought  to  thinke,  and  thinke  no  otherwiſe  then  |  baue
taught  }
ou.
Hethat  rrovblethyou  ]  the  Chorch  is  troubled  three  wayes:  1,  by
flledoQrine-  Thus  Ab  troubled  !ſract,1.Kmngs.18.18.  and  the
falſe  apoſtles  trouble  Galatia.  2,  By  wicked  example:  thus  Achan
14  Poubled  Iſrael,  loſma.  7.25.  3.  By  torceandcrueltie:  thus  tyrants
and
perſecutors  trouble  the  Church.
Shall  beare  |
(ſhall  haue  bis  due  anddeſerued  puniſhment,  partly
inthis  hte,and  partly
in  eteroall  death.  See  this  verified  inthe  end
ofthe  booke  of  Engliſh  Martyrs,in  the  deſperate,  horrible,and  (lin-
Þ  king  ends  of  perſecurors.  But  zetthis  theeat  mult  bee  vaderitood
with  the  exception  of  repentance.
The  ſcope.  The  wordsare  ananſwer  to  an  obietion,which
may  be  framed  thus:  1ltſoemes  by  your  former  proverb  of  leauenz
that  you  huld  vs  to  bee  apeople  corrupted,  and  veſauorie  vato
z5  God.  Tothis  Paw  anſwers  by  adiltinfion  :  1  hope  better  things
"I  wig
of  you  :  but  the  talſe  Apollles  for  troubling  the  Church  that  ſure-
I  be  puviſhed,
Thevie.  When  Pa«/  faith,/  have  an  affiance
in  you,  he  teacheth  in
his  owneexample,  that  wee  are  to  hope  the  belt  of  menſo  longas
©  they  axe  curable.  1t  may  be  ſaid;they  that  bope  the  beſt,  are  ſame-
times
dgceiued,  Anſwer,  T  hey  are  onely  deccived
in  their  judges
ment,and  that  in  things  wherof  they  haue  no  certain  knowledge,
Z  2
an
