---
page: 36
pdf_page: 58
sortable_pagination_id: "36"
---
Chap.
A  Commentarie
ypon
46
And  here»
mult  needsfollow,
deed  :  and  then  faith  and  repentance
in  Fands  the  efficacie
of  the  firſt  grace,that  God  addes  vnto  it;  and
workes  the  will  and #be  deed,  Phil.2.13,
The  laſt  queſtion  is,whether  it  was  inthepower  of  Pau/:  will,
torelilt  thecalling,or  the  grace  of  God?  Avſw,  The  will  for  his  F
condition  is  apt  to  reſilt  grace:  nevertheleſſe,  if  we  conſider  theet-
grace,and  the  will  of  God,  hee  could  not  reſiſithe
ficacie  of  Gods
of  the  Fa-
of  God.  Eyery  one  that  hath  heard  and  learned
calling
ther,comes  to  Chrilt  ,Jobn  5.45.  Gods  will  determines
and  limits
to  effe&thewill  18
of  man:  and  mans  will  is  at  inſtrument
the  will
of  God.  It  may  be  heredemanded,how
the  efficacie  of  grace  may
land  with  the  libertie  of  mans  will,ifit  have  not  kibertiezto  accept
or  refuſe  the  grace  of  God?  Anſw.  Libertie
and  freedome  of  will  in
God,ispcrfeR  libertie  :  now  God  cannot
will  either  good  or  evill,
but  only  that  which  is  good.  And  mans  will,  theneererit
comesto  15
this  will  of  God,the  greater  kbertie bathie.  Therefore  to  wilt  that
without  compulſion,is  trae  li-
onely  which  is  good,  ſoit  bee
iseuill,and  to  reſiſt  thecallio
bertie:  to  beableto
will  that
of  Godzis  not  liberty,  but  impotency.  And  bethatcan  onely  w
willgood,
that  which  is  good,doeth  more
and  hath  more  li-  20
bertie,then  he  that  can  willeither
or  evill,
muſt  learne  Chriſt
The  vie.  Miniſters  of  the
as  P  aw/
learned  him;  They  may  not  content  themſeloes  with  that  teach-
ing  which  they  finde  in  Schooles,  but  they  mult  proceed  further
to  areall  learning
of  Chriſt:  and  that  is,to  beleeve  in  the  Sonne  25
of  God,  to  die  to  their  (liones  by  the  vertue
of  his  death,  and  to
Thisis  a  reall
liveto  Gad  by  the  vertucof  hislife,
and  lively  lear-
nivgof  Chrilt,  They  that  muſt  convert  others,
it is  meete  they
ſhould  bee  cffefually  converted.  Jobn  mult  firſt  edte  the  Booke,
ay
——
and  then  prophecie,  &ewel.  10.9,  And
that  woold  bee  firft  30
Miniſters  of  the  Goſpell,  mult  6eſt
cate  the  booke  of
Gad.-  And  this  booke  is  indeed  caten,when
they  are  not  onelyin
their  minds  inlightned,
but  their  hearts  are  mortified  and
in  ſubieion  tothe  word  of  Chriſt,  Valeſle  Chriſt  be  thuslearned
ſpiritually
and  really,  Divines  ſhall  ſpeake  of  the  word  of  God,  35
as  men  ſpeake  of  riddles,  and  as  Prieſtesin  former  time  ſaid  their
Matteos,  when  they  hardly  kaew  what  they  ſaid.  Againe  flu-
dents
in  every  facultie,  arewith  Pax/  to/learne  Chriſt,  and  that
as  hee  learned  him,  Such  perſons  defireand  lovegood  learning  :
pow  this  is  the  belt  Jearniog
of  all,  tolearne  to  know,  and  to  ac-  49
cpowledgeChrilt.  The  knowledge  of  Chriſt  crucified  is  Pants
learning.  Theknowledge  of  theremiſſion  ofour  (ins,  is  the  lear-
ning  -
