---
page: 360
pdf_page: 382
sortable_pagination_id: "360"
---
A  Commentarie  pon
firſt  inzto  curbe  and  teſtrainetbefleſb,
Thai  $,
ſaith
«ce  keepes  theregenerate
that  they  canner  fn,
1.lohn  3.9.  The  ſecondaQion  ofthe  ſpiritis,toingender  good  mo.
tions,
cogitations.and  inclinations,  agreeable
to  the  will  of  God.
Thus  David
ſaith,  thatbirremts  did  reach  bim  inthe  night  ſeaſm,  P[.d,  5
16.  And  the  Prophet  1/as  ſaith,  Thine  eare ball  beare  awice;
Heereic  the  way,  walks  in  it,  when  thon  tirneſt  tothe  right  band,wr
onely
the  yoire  of
ter
moan}  TheconialeeP
irie  makes  the  combate,  And  thecoatrarierie
i  ve.
ry  great-for  the  ſpirit  isthe  gift  of  righteouſnes:
and  the  fleſh  (labs  1;
in  a  double  oppolitjontoit,
forit  is  firſt  of  all-che  want  of
Kot  a  [in
ta  doublepriuation  or  warit  of  the  g
ot  God.  Hence  1  gather,
no
freedome
of  will  in
I  ROT
becauſe  bee  is  then  wholly  1»
cſh,and
wants  the  (ſpiritof  God  and  the  ſpiritis  flat  cootraryto
theſpirit:
and  one
hath  no
at  all  co  bring  forth  the
effeRt  of  his  contrary,  And  hence  it  followes,  tharthere  areao
ſuch  workes  whereby  aman  may
prepare
himſeHe
ro  his  ownein:
ſlification,
for  though  the  mind
beinlightned
with  a  generalfaith,  13
yet  man  before  be be  iuſtived,is  nothing  but  fleſh  :  and  fleſh  being
ib  pature  oppolite
to  the  ſpirit,  can  make  no  preparation
for  the
ſpirit,  Tr  yn
>  Fro  preparation  for  the
ea.
T  he  tourth  point,is,concerniog  the
perſons  in  whom  thiscom-  jo
bateisry
bee  found.  And  they  are  ==  not  ynbeleevers  or
wicked  mea:)  ſuch  as  the  Galatians  were,  to
whom  this  combat  is
laid
to  belong.  Itmay  be  alledged,
that  naturallmen  haveacom-
batein  them,  For  they
can  ſay,/  ſee  and  approoae  that  which
v7  good  but
7  ace  that  which
is  naught,  Anſwer,  Thiscombate  is  betweene  the  n3-  z5
turall  conſcience,and  rebellious  affeion  :  and  it  is  incidentto  all
men,  that  have  in  them  any  conſcience,or  light  of  reaſon.  But  the
combateof  the  fleſhand
thefpiritis
of  an
kinde,  forin  it  the
minde  iscarried  againſt  it  ſelfe,  the  will  againt  it  ſelfe,  and  the  af-
teions  againſt  themſclues:  by  reaſon  they  are  partly  ſpirituall,  40
and  partly  carnall.  Secondly,  not  all  beleeuers  have  this  combate
inthem,  but  anely  ſuch  as  bee  of  yeares  :  for  infants;though  wy
auc
