---
page: 339
pdf_page: 361
---
the  Epittle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap\:y.
347:
Sometherebe
that  miſlike  the
ing  vſcd  in  theſe  daies\:be-
caule  we  vic  not  ſeveritic,and
after  the  maner
of  [obs  Baptsf.  But  theſe  men  are  deceived.  We  have  not  the  like
that
likegitts:\:neitber  are  we  inthe  liketimes.
4  For  /obn  the
Fapriit  wasin  the  very  time  of  the  chaoge  betweene
RES  pi  Raga  rnd”  Orman  ow
famemaner  of  teaching,
neither
doeth
Apolile
io  this
place,
_—_  ſaith  of  che  Galatians  in
Apoſtabe,  that  bes  fora!
ings
of  ther.
lathelaſt  place,  the  commination
which  the  Apoſtle  vſcth,  is
to be  obſcrued,that
troublers  of  the  Church  ſhal  beare  their  ivdg-
ment.  Hence  I
WL
x.  That  God  watcheth  over  his  Church  with  g  ſpeciall  provi-
dence,  ane  Pr  experience:
and  we  are
_  '2;  Thatthedodrineofthe
is  of  infallible  certaintic  -
ren”
P  HAR
ved  by  the  iuft  iudgement
of
3,  On  the  contrarie,our  dutieis,  to  pray  for  thegoodellate  of
(8G  >
or  ws  ame
my  where
the  Chorch  is
Golpeli  ſpecially  in  Eng-
For
wht  will
ll
che
things  we
have
doe
v4  good  if
we
bee
forth  of  Gods  kingdome,and
(oules  ?
»  11  Audbratbren,sf
1  yet  preach  Circumcifion,  why  doe  1  yet
perſecution
?  Then  i  the  ſcandall  of  the  croſſe  aboliſhed.
12  Would  to  God  they  were  cut  off  that  trouble  you.
The  ſenſe,  Tet  preach  ]  now  while  I  am  an  Apoſtle.  Heere
yo  Pan!  takes  it  for  graunted,  that  when  be  was  a  Phariſie,be  taught
and  maintained
Circumciſion  :  but  he  denies  that  he
euvcrtaught
it  after  his  Converſion  in  his  A
ip.  The  croſſe]
the
Goſpel,
which  is  a  doctrineteaching
frem  h<ll,and  life  everla»
—__  "—_—  by  the  death  and  paſſion
of  Chriſt  crucified,
15  LCTC#AT1I
323,
More  plain]  the  words  are  thus  much  in  effeR  :  Iris  reported,
that  |
Pax/an  Apolilepreach  circurnciſion  :  but  the  truth  igthere
isno  ſuch  matter,  For
if  |  taugbtcircumciſion,the  [ewes  maintai-
ners  of  circurnciſion,  would  not  perſecute  me  a$they  doe  :  neither
©  would  they  take  offence  at  the
preaching
of  Chriſt  crucified,
if  [
ioynedcircumcilion  with  Chril..
The  drift,  P./  here  anſwers  a  new  obieQion,
which  is  on  this
£3
manner,
ti
