---
page: 340
pdf_page: 362
---
Gaps.
L  WW42
rmaener.  T  hertis  poteuſe;Peargwhy
thouſhovidelt  thus  teproote
"6
tor
chow
ty  fe  ve
's  teacher  of
aronatriben.
calprons
——
ST
DD
lyzP  ax{  an{wcrs  by  pronouncing:
pon  the  falſe apofi
acurlerpn  lo  the  words
Dr
ympoi  Fl
twotbings,the  report  gies
foorth  of  Pa»/,and  his  Apologie.  The  report
co
farnmhot  iethendodaitadttde  io
Mal  the  wana  oben  ade  ee
tion,  not  __  inreſpe  of  their  lives,  butalſ&imreÞpettof  their:
and  doaring,
as  if  they  were  heretikees.”  Thus\:the  Pa-
migitterie
Miniſterig
ofthe  Church  of.  Bv
pits
att
—_  herelies.  And
charging
it  with  ſun
nottogbarge  it  With
a  Abd  bdodi  not
ro  auouch  itthat  ſome  are
for  beretikes  inthe  hiltorie'
of  the  Churcb,whoſ(ifall  were  evra  be  found  to  be  goed
ſcruants
of  Gad..  ©
$7
440,513?
k.
teen
ring  oliputaapte  Luci
verihesthe
THEN  Js"
arg  yrs
bas!
9067  2  i  2a
ws  lair  muſth
both  for  the  matterandthe  manner  of  their  preaching.
3.  Beivg  defained;
and  that
they  roull  hencetake  29
coraanets  morecarctullto  pleale  (ig  Dad  did  (bat
cale,P/al.1  19.69.
But  how  camethisreportof  Paul?  -»  Sat.  folle=
rated  circumcition,asa   Requtnays  hereupon
ecumciled7imethie  And
atone
t  is  railed
that  19
pam  cad
thatvpon
and  vaiult  occaGon,  But  good  men  willtake
no  ſuch
raiſing  reports,P/al.15,3.
But  how
did  Paw!  take  thisreport?  Hrſwer,  Hee  did  not  *aag
quite  cvill  tor
evill(as  themannerof  men
heerecurnes
love
and  goodnelle
——  caule(notoubt  of!
'bebeginnes  his
burn  Ju
Cs
br
yy
—_—  and  Khnce  fallowes..  And  beltdee  teeth
is  :  becauſe
for  bis  preaching  be  is  perſecuted  of
the,
