---
page: 363
pdf_page: 385
sortable_pagination_id: "363"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.s.
37!
be  6mply  a  Fnne,is  notto  be  done.  Now  then  vpon  this  doAtine
it  followes  That  there  is  no  iulti6cation  by  workes,  nor  no  fulkil-
log  ofthe  law,tor
ghecime  of  thigife.
T  hirdly,benc
owes,that  the  grace  of  God  for  thetime  of
5  thislifc,  is  mixed  with  bis  contrary,the  corruption  of  the  fleſh,  This
mixture  the  godly  feelein  themlelues  to  the  great  griefe  of  their
hearts.\Vhen  they  would  belecue,;their  mindes  are  oppreſled  with
vnbelcefe.
T  hey  ſee  more  ignorance  in  themſclues,  then  light  of
knowledge.  T
bere  are  a  number  amonglt  vs;that  ſay,  they  know
10-44  wuch  as  all  the  world  can  teach  them,  that  they  doe  pertecly
belecue  in  Chrilt,  and  ever  did,  that  they  loue  God  with  all  cheir
hearts,and  did  neverſo  much  as  doubt  of  the  mercy  of  God.  But
theſe  men  are  void  of  the  grace  of  God  :  they  are  like  empty  bar-
relsrhat  make  a  great  ſound  :  they  never  knew  what  is  meant  by
is  thecombate
of  che  fleſh,and  Spirit.
Fourtbly,we  are  bere  to  beadmoniſhed,  in  all  duties  of  religion
tovſeindultry,and  paines,by  willing,  (triving,and  indeuouring
to
the  vttermolt,  to  doethat  which  we  ought  to  doe.  We  m_
vie
ahogſeching  knocking,  Math.7  7,We  muR  with  Pax  vie  wraſiling  tn
20  our  prayers  to  God,  Rom,  1  5,30,  I  bey  that  would  haue  knowledge  in
the  booke  of  God,muſt  doe  more  then  heare  a  Sermon:  they  mult
ſirive  againſt  their  ignorance,  and  blindaeile,  and  laborioully
exerciſe  their  ſenſes  in  the  diſcerving  of  good  and  evil  They
that  would  belecue,  muit  ſtrive  agaiolt  their  paturall  vobelcete,
5  ad  indeauour  to  belceve  Zle(ſed({aith  Salomm,Pron.28:)is  the  man
that  fearetb  b1ſelfe,  or  inures  humnſclfe  to  feare.  Pani  ſaith  of  him-
ſelfe,  that  bre  labowred  and  tooke  pames  to  heepe  4  good  conſcience,
rAF.24.16,
Laltly,by  reaſon  of  this  combate,weare  put  in  mindeto  vſe  {0-
'0  briety,and  watchfulnesouer  our  owne  corruptions,with  much  and
iollant  prayer,  leſt  wefallinto  temptation.  Math.26  41.We  fhould
pratiſe  theſe  more  then  we  doe  :  tor  belide  the  enemies  without,
we  haue  an  enemie  withio,tbat  feckes  our  perdition.
is
18  Andifyebeledby  the  Spirit,ye  are  not  onder  the  law.
Inthe  1  3.verſe  Paw/propoundsa  mainerule  of  good  life,iwe  no
the  fl-ſh  :  and  tor  the  better  keeping  of  this  he  giues  a  ſe-
«caſion  rs
cond  rule,v.1  6.  #:/ke  inthe  ſporit,  Of  this  fecondrule  he  giues  two
4  reaſons.  The  firſt  istaken  from  the  contratiety  of  the  fleſh  apd  the
ſprit,v.  17.  T  he  ticcond  is  in  theſe  words  :  they  that  walks  according  10
the/pritzere  freed  ſrom  the  cnrſe  of  the  law.
In
