---
page: 343
pdf_page: 365
---
the  Epiftle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap.y-
this  courſe,  They  muſt  con(ider  that  there  is  a  citieof  Godin  hea-
ven,the
and  ſuburbs  wherof  be  ypon  earth  in  the  aſſemblies
ofthe  Church  :  that  this  citie  hath  many  roomes  and  habitations,
and  mary  liberties:  thatthe  law  whereby  this  citicis  ruled,  is  the
s  whole  word  of  God,  ſpecially
the  doArine  of  the  Goſpell.  1  this
Oe  nerherore  rhe
of  it  there  is  nothing  but  woe
into  the  ſuburbs
ofthis  city  of  God:
as
pel;ſo ſubieR  your  minds  and  conſciences,and
Ne  efoctions  ©  itand  bord
f  itin  the  exerciſe  of  faith,
obedience.  Thus  ſhall  you  have  a
eſtaccim
ae  nfl
habicatoo  in  heaves,””
my
13  Fordrethren;
yee  haue  beene  called  to  libertie_  :  onely
uſe  net  your  libertie  as  an  occaſion  to  the  fieſs  :  but
by
lone
tf  (erge  one  another;
Thefirſtpart
of  the  E  letonchivg  the
faichof  the  Galatians
is  ended:  and  bere
-  the  ſecond  part  touching  good  life,
and  it  continues  from-this-verſe  co  the  11,verſeof;hes.  chapter:
t9]nitPau!  dotb
two  things:  Grlt,  be  propounds
che  furnene  of  bis
neerey  >  aa  IT
declaration
of  it,  The
foumme  of  all  is
is  13.  verſe:  in  which  Pas!  ſects
downe  the
faligned  dedieend  chan
twacuctacrebes
of  goodlife.  The
is  in  theſe  words,  Brethren,  yee  have  been
$5  called
to  libertie.  And  it  mult  be  noted,  that  as  theſe  words  are  the
foundation:  of  that-  SE  SOUR  reaſan
of
that  which
before,
and  therefore  Pas!  {aith,  For  brethren,
cc.
The  two  rules  arein  the  words  following:  Ooe  in  thele,vſe  vor  your
hbertie
as  an  occaſion  tothe  fleſo  :  the  other
in  theſe,  Dos  ſernice  one  to
is
of  all  good  duties,
»  the  calling
to  liber-
ty,foure
things  are  to  beconlidered.
Firſt
R_—
who
arccalld.  Thirdhy  what
iatbecalling  of  God.
Fourthlyy  itis
ere  mentio
3s  Tothe  firlt,w  calles
?  1  anſwer,  God  the  Fatherin
Chriſt  by.
the  ſpirit,for
he  is  abſolute  Lord  of  all  his  creatures  :  and  therefore
bema
a7-call  out  of
he
kingdomeof  darkneſſe
into  his  owne  king-
domewhombe  will  Anditis
God  alone  that  callerh  the  rhiwgs  thas  -
wene  at
were,  Row.4.17.
49
Theſ
iogtbo  are  called?  Anſwer.  Alltbey
that  any  way
anſwer  the
calling  of  God,  for  P«»/  faith  indifferently
of  all  the
Fr=wciogrr  were  called.  Now  men  aplwer  the  calling  ot
