---
page: 366
pdf_page: 388
sortable_pagination_id: "366"
---
A  Commentarig  pon
Chap.  5»
374
quires,  Whetber  we  confeſſe  them  or  no,  they  are  manifelt  :  and
the  iogenuous  confeſſing  or  vncouering  of  themyis
the  way  to  co-
uertherw.P/al.z2.1.4.
Touching  the  kiods
or  ſorts  ofthe  workes  of  the  fleſh;they  are
in  number  {cuenteene:  and  I  may  reduce  them  to  foure  heads,  5
T  he  firſt  ſort,are  againſtcbaſliryzthe  ſecond,  againlt  religion,  the
third,agaio(t  charitiezthe  laſt,againittemperance,
The  workes  of  the  fleſh  again(tcbaſtitie,are  foure  and  they  are
placedin  the  firltranke,for  iuſt  cauſe:  for  by  them,men
are
to  r<probate  mindes.
Row.  1.28,  andto  be  without  ſenle
or
feling,
ts
Eph.4-19.and  the  body  which  ſhould  be  the  Temple  of  the
Hg
Gholt,is  madea  ſtable  and  a  ſtie  for  the  divell.
Adulterie
it  is  the  inconti
perfor  maried  or  ofperſems  wheres
one
at  the
leaft  is  Loder  ne
fay  betrothed
:  becable
one
and  the  ſame  puniſhment
is  deſigned  to  married,  and  betrothed  14
:  and  therefore
the  (inne  is  alike  in  both.
If  adultery,  which  is  the  breach  of  wedlocke,  bea  worke
of  the
fleſh,cthen  damnableis  the  decretall  of  Pope  Syricimezthat  marriage
it{alfe  was  the  pollution
ofthe  fieth.  Ic  may  be  obieRedythat
youg
widdowes
by  marrying  be  dawvuation,  and  breakg  the  faith  of  by.
tiſme.t.  Tumoth.  5.12.  Anſwer,  They  are not  faid  to
the
faith
of
baptiſme,becauſe
they  marry  :  but  becauſe  they waxe  ma
con  again(t  Chriſt,and
ſo  marry  :  thatis,  call  off the  retves
of  6-
bedience,  by  committing  fornication,  and  then  to  couce  their
—  they  marry.  This  |  take
to be  the  right  ſenſe  of  that
P  Adwheryis
named  in  the  firſt  place,  and  that  for  ſpeciall  caule
Fore  it  is  ecommondolt  is  alſoa  grout   —_  F<  >
couenant  of  marriage,made  in
ence
andynto
God:  andthereforeitiscalled
che  covenant  of  God.  Pro,2.17.1t
ittht  y
puniſhment
of  Idolatry.Row.  1,  24.  It  is  a
er  then  theft.
Pree.6.30.32,T  hecommitters
ofthis  (innecut  ott
et
humane  (ociety,  and  become
men  ofdeath,  and
EE
ESE
ens
js
Grp  a  atweargrs  honing  lions,  their  lives  cakeo  from  than  zi
their
conkicate.  Lallly,this  fione  brings  the  rui
families  of  adulterous  perſoas:  andit  ſets  a  fire  mtbem  that  burges
todeſtryQion.
hh
Fornication]ut
i  the  incoutivencie
ons,  Marke  hoy  it
is  made  a  ike  worke  of  the  Canoe  it  tollowes,  that  #
fornication  is  no  hight  matter  ,  or  a  thing  indifferent  ,
as  ſome
baue  taught.  It  may  be  obiaRed;that  it  is  numbred  nr  __
indi
