---
page: 367
pdf_page: 389
sortable_pagination_id: "367"
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.  5.
375
indifferent,
47.  15.29,  for  with  ſtrangled,  and  blood,is  ioyned  fore
mcarion,  Auſ,  T  he  Gentils  indeedeſteemed  it  as  athiog  indifferent:
and  hereupon  it  may be,  it  is  ijoyned  with  things  ioditferent,  But
the  iudgment  ofthe  Church  was  otherwiſe  :  &  this  opinion  of  the
5  Gentiles  isconfuted  by  Paw/1.Cor.6,  Againe,  it  may  be  obieted,
that  the  Lord  commaunded  the  Prophet  Oe  to  take  vnto  him  an
barlot,O/c  1.2.  Anſwer.  It  was  done  in  type  or  figure:  and  then  the
words  of  the  Lord  cary  this  ſenſe,Take  wo  thee  a  wife  of  fornications,
thatis,prophelie  and  publiſh  hat  thou  art  like  one  that  takes  a  wife
20  of  fornication.  Againezif  the  thing  were  done  indeed,yet  did  nor
the  Prophet  takean  barlot,to  liuein  fornication  with  her,  but
Gods  commandement,  toliue  with  her  according  to  Gods  ond.
nance,namely,in  marriage.
Agaio,hencel  gather,that  thereis  no  warrant  for  thetoleration
15  of
fornication.  For  it  isa  foule  &  manifeſt  work  ofthe  Reſh.  Magi-
rates  may  wot  do  ewill,that  good  may  come  therof,  Rom,  ;.8.Wholoever
doeth  euill,mutt  feare  :  becauſe  the  Magiſtrate  bearcs  the  ſword  to
puniſh,Rows,  1  3.4.  And  the  commandement  of  God  was,  that  theye
muſt  be no
whore  im  [ſrael,  Dent.23.  Therefore  the  permillion  of  the
10  ewes  in  Rome  is  without  warrant:  &  the  rather,becauſe  there  the
prohibition  of  marriage(in  ſundry  orders  of  men)beares  (way.
Vacleanneſſe  ]  T  be  1ncontinencie  againſt  pature,  as  incelt,  the
ſinne
of  Sodom,  and  ſuch  like.  Marke,  where  theſe  (innes  were
knowne,  there  they  arenamed  particularly  by  Pa«/,as  among  the
15  Romanes,Rew.  1.2  7,28,  and  tothe  Corinthians,  1.Cor.6.9,10.  but
where  they  werenot  knowne,as  in  Galatia  ,  there  they  are  onely
mentioned  generally  leſt  by  the  naming  of  themybe  ſhould  after  a
ſort  teach  bow,
Wantonneſſe)  Thatis,theopen  profeſſion  andoltentation  of  in-
$0  continency,  by  yncha(t  words,wanton  geltures,  and  wanton  appa-
rell  Hence  it  appeares,that  wee  areto  detelt  all  (ignes  of  inconti-
nencie:  and  that  weareto  be  chaſt  not  only  in  deed,but  alſo  in  our
words,geliures,and  behaviours,
Thepuniſhment  of  theſe  (innesis  in  v.21,  in  thele  words,  They
doe  theſe  things  ſhall  not  inberit  the  kingdome  of  God.  And  it  mult
is  which
beremembred;that  this  threat  or  curſe  mult  bee  applied  to  euery
oneot  theſe  ſinnes  particularly.
The  vſe.  There  are  anumberof  men  that  liue  ſecretly  in  theſe
linnes,adultery,fornication,&c.  And  becauſe  they  profetle  Chri-
©  ſliaoreligion,and  ſometime  come  tothe  Church,and  tothe  Lords
Table,  they  thinke  all  is  well,  and  they  ſuppoſe  thereis  nodan-
ger,  Thus  make  they  4  conenant  with  hell  and  death,  Iſai,  23,  _
Bb
they
