---
page: 347
pdf_page: 369
---
,  the  Epiſtle  tothe  Galatians.
Chap.s.
fly  by  the  law  ofcharity;in  the  caſe  of  offence.  I  ſay
in  the  vic  :  becauſcliberty  it  ſelfe  is  iowardly  in  the  conſcience\:and
the  vſe  of  it  is  often  in  the  outward  ation  :  and  therefore  vnder
the  order  of  hamane  law.  The  5.  rule:  Ourliberty  mult  be  vied  for
5  rightends  z  as  namely  the  glory  of  God.1.Cor.10.;  1,  the  preferua-
tion  of  nature,and  not  the  pampering  of  the  fleſh,  Rom.x  3.1  3.  and
the  good  of  our  neighbour.Rows.  1  2.23.
—n_—_o—_—
ww
Makeconſcienceto  obſcrue  this  rule  :  and  therather,  becauſe
the  holy  and  {piritua!l  vie  of  Chrillian  liberty,is  a  ligne  and  token
19  that  thou  art  in  the  kingdome  of  God\:and  a  true  member  thereof:
as0nthe  contrary,  the  abuſe  of  Gods  ble(lings  ſhewes  thee  to  be
ſilliothe  kingdome  of  darknes.  \Vhen  men  (ell  things  of  great
worth  for  alittle  yalue,and  theo  afterward  giue  themſciuesto  rio»
es
46:
ajcom
2,we  commonly  fay  that  they  are  theeues,and  no
15  right  owners
of  the  goods  which  they  (olde.  The  like  may
be  ſaid
*  ofthem  that  abuſe  ſpirituall  liberty,that  they  are  but  _  and
noright  ownersof  it,
Lallly,it  mult  be  obſerved;
that  thisrule  hath  ewo  branches.  The
—_—
felt  is,  that  we  mult  aot  miniſter  to  the  fleſh  any  oecalion  of  (in-
39  ning.  The  ſecond  is;that  we  mult  giue  no
on  of  (1nning  by
*-  meanesof  Chriſtian  liberty,
The  ſecond  maine  role  followes,  .Serus  one  an  other  by  lone  :  For
theright  copuiping  of
it,  |  will.  propound  three  queſtions,  The
ficſt  igwhy  is  this  ru
propenaded  inthis  place  ?  Anſwer.  It  fets
15  downe  the end  of  all  Apultolike  dorine,as  Pas/  ſheweth,
1.7  im.
1,5,  The  endof  the  commandement  is  lows  out  of  a  pure  heart,
good  con-
ſrience,  faith  wnfained.  Here  men  commonly  vaderitand
by  the
t,the  morall  law,  T  bat  is  indeed  a  truth,  but  it  is
not  the  meaning
of  the  place,  Inthetbird  verſe  Pas/  ſets  downe  a
3®  commaundement  or  a  denunciation  vato  Timethy,  that  hee
and  the  Pa(tors  of  Epheſus,  teach  no  other  doQtrine,buttbe  do-
Arine
of  the  Apoltles\:then  inthe  5.verſe  he  propounds
the  furume
and  ſubliance  or  end  of  the  toreſaid  commancement  :  in.  the  18.
verſeafter
a  long  anant«podaten,be  intoynes  7imorbre  to  oblerue  it
35  carefully,Sothen
the  «nd  of  all  ſound  doarineis  love  out
of  a
pure
heart:  and  all  our  preaching  mull  tend  to  this,
T  he  ſecond  queſtion  is,  what.isthelove  of  our  neighbour  ſpe-
cibed  inthis  rule  ?  Anſwer,  /t  ©  an  aff:  how  renewed,  whereby  wee  are
moewes  to
wiſh  well  19  our
weighbour  ihe  Lord,  |  {ay,  an  «ff<ition,to
#  confute  Lowbard,  who  Cirbahat  laue  is  not  an  habit  in  vs(as  other
vyertuesare,)butthe  H.Gholi.l  fay,itisan  atteRion  renewedsto  con»
kute  the  Papiſt,  who  teacheth  that  we  baue  the  true  loue  of  God,
an
