---
page: 349
pdf_page: 371
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians,
Chap.  5.
357
Endthat  they  faile  many  waiegand  come  ſhort  in  theduties
of  loue
tome  with  whom  they  live,
This  being  {o,  we  areto  acknowledge  before  God  this  maine
offence  of  ours  :  and  to  intreat  for  pardon  of  it  for  Chriſts  ſake.
4  Aud  ever  hereafter  to  change  our  lives,  and  to  reforme  them
xcording  to  this  rule.  Aud  that  is  done  on  this  manner.  Eyery
man  hath,or  ought  to  have  twacallings,  a  generall,
and  a  particu-
hr.  Thegenerall
is,  whereby  wee  arecalledto  bee  Chriſtians,  In
thiscalling  wee  areto  doe  goodto  all  men  by  teachiog,  admoni-
{hing,exhorciag,and  by  example  of  good  life.  A  particular
calling,
ly
whereby  menare  called  to  ſomeellace  of  life  in  thefamily,Church
ar  Commonwealth,  Andacearding  to  the  {cuerall  conditionsof
icular  callings,  mult  every  man  in  his  place
doe  the  belt  good
>a  The  Magillrate  mult  vie  his  office,  firſt  for  the  mainte-
15  nance
of  the  Goſpell,  and  then  for  the  execution  of  iuftice.  The
Miniſter  mult  preach  ſound  religion  in  loue
of  the  ſgulesof  men.
Themalter  _  family  mull  _
his  houſhold  to  imbrace  the
Golpell,and
frequent  the  exerciſes  of  religion.  Laſtly,  cuery
man
thatisio  atradeor  office,  mult  apply  himlelfeto  jon.  or
of
20  his
,to  doe  all  hecan  forthe
of  bis  countrey:  andhe
wal  fo
deale.thar  be  may  bee  helptulltoall  with  whom  be  dealcs,
and  hoetfull
to  pone,  Vee  are,  or  ſhould  be,  trees  of  rightcouſmeſſe:
tor  medi.
our  fruite  mult  bee  meate  for  others,  and  our  leaues
nn.  We  mult
be  as  candles,  that  ſpend  theaclues  to  giue  light
to  others.
14  For  dll the  law  is  fulfilled  in  one  word,which
is  this,  thou
ſhalt  lowe  thy  neighbour
as  thy  ſelfe.
1  Fulfiled)
iſed
,  Row.  13.9.  One  word”  One  precept:  for
the  holy  Gholl
ecepts,»ords.  It  may  bee  demaunded,  how
the  wholelaw  ſhould  |
be
in  the  loue  of  our  neighbour  ?
Anſwer.  Theloue
of  God,  and  the  love  of  our  neighbour
are  ioy-
ned
together,  as  the  cayſe  and  the  effect:  andtheloue  of  Godis
Js  praRtiled
intheloyeof
our  neighbour,  For  God  that  is  inviliblez
willbe  loved  in  the  perſon  of  our  neighbour  whom  wee  ſec,  and
with  whom.  wee  coguerſe.  And  the  firſt  Commaundement  of
the
law,  mult
be  included  in  all  the  Commandements  following;
aud  thus  the  love  of  God  is  preſuj
in  every  Commaunde-
40  mentof  the  ſecond  T
able;  be  therefore  that  loues  his  neighbour,
loges
God  allo.
Thos  ſoalt  lowe  ]  vaderſtand  both  the  affeRion,and  the  ueies  of
Oue.
