---
page: 372
pdf_page: 394
sortable_pagination_id: "372"
---
Chap.  5-
A  commentarie  wvpon
of  blood,
-  ſhoald  cure  witchcraft.  T  beacon  therefore  is  a  ſacri-
hce  to  the  divell:  and  in
way  of  recompence,  the  cure  isdoge
by  him.
43
d  [t  may  beſaid,what  ſhould  we  doein  diſtreiſe,iffuch
helps  may
not
be  vicd?  Auf.  \Veare  to  vie  approoued  and  ordinary  meanes:  5
and  for  the  re(t;namely  the  cuent,to  leave  it  vato  God,  liuing  by
faith,  and  calling  our  care  on  God,  and  quietiog  our  hearts
in  his
will,  whatſocuer  comes  to  paile.  Itis  a  want  of  faith  thus  1s  make
hiſt  for  the  deliverie  before  the  appointed  time,  And  whereasit  is
thought  that  ſome  perſons  baue  a  gift  of  Gad,  by  words  preſently  1g
to  cure  any  diſcaſe,  whereupon
they  are  called  wi/e,
or  cunnavg  men
&  womenzit  is  falſe\:it  i8no  gitt  of  God,
but  rather  a  curſcthat  leaues
them  to  be  deluded  dy  the  diue!l,who  is  the  worker
of  theſe  cores,
when  Satanical  and  ſuperſtitious  meanes,  and  thatin  a  falſefaith,
are  vicd,
Ti
For  the  better  conceiving  of  the  finne,  it  may  be  demanded
what  is  a
witeh  ?  Anſw.  One  that  wittingly,
and
ly,wſeth  the  «ſſh.
fhance  of  the  dinell  bimſelfe  for  wolrns  Lan  or  the  working  of
[ome  nuſchiefe,  or  far  the  effctiing  of  ſome  _—_—  |  ſay  wicrmgh,
to
puta  difference  betweene  witches,  and  fome  (uperflitious  per-  26
ſons,  wbovſe  charming,  and
by  it  doe  many  cures,  periwadi
themſelues,
that  the  wordes  which  they  vſe,have  forcein  them
or
that  God  hath  giueathem  agitt,to  doe  (trange  things.  Such  peo-
pleina  naturall  boneltie,  detelt  all  knowne  focietie  with  the  di-
vellzin  that  reſpeRtthey  are  not  the  witches  which  the  Scripture  35
adiudgeth  todeath,  yet  are  they
at  the  nexr  dore  to  them:  and
therefore
they  are  to  bee  admoniſhed  by  Magiſtrates  and-\:Mini-
ſers  to  relinquiſh  their  fuperiticious
practiſes  ,  and  that  vpon  4
double  ground.  I.  Nothing  bath  e
ie  but  by  the  Ordinaoce'
of  God,  And  this  efhicacie  was  eitherput  ivto  thething  in  the  3%
creation  ,  or  (ince  by  fomenew  Inſtitution  in  the  word.
the  ethicacie
of  things  that  comes  by  any  othermeanes  ,  is  by  Sd
tanicall  operation.  |  |.  Charmes,tnchantmentsand
ſpells  what-
ſoeuer  ,  have  no  force  ynlefſe  wee  beleenve  that  they  can  doe  vs
good.  Now  this  faith  istalfefaith  ,  and  the  ſervice
of  the  dioell.  3s
For  wee  muft  beleevenothing
,  hope  nothing,  doe  nothing,  with-
out  ,  or  again{tche  wordot
|f  theſe  two  rules  bee  obterved,
not  _—  charmiog  »  but  all  witchcraft  ſhallbedaniſhed
ourot  the
wort)..
ins  .  *
grey
QI  ©
Apgaine,  itmay  be  demanded,  what
are  the  ignes  that  ſervet0  4
dilcourr  a
witch?  Anſwer.  |  hisdiſcouerie  1;  verie  hard.  -  For  wit-
ches  dox  their  feates  inclule  manger,  not  oncly  by  fouleand  open
Curlingy
