---
page: 373
pdf_page: 395
sortable_pagination_id: "373"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.s.
331
curling,  butalſo
by  faire  ſpeaking,
and  by  praiſing  ofthings.  And
hereupon  wee  haue  a  faſhion  in  England,  when  wee  praiſe  any
thing,  with  allto  blelle  it,  (as  toſay,  ««  i  «  goodly  childe,  God  ſaneit)
_  thatourſpeach  may  not  be  (uſpeRed  of  witchcrafe,  Nevertheleſle,
$  there  are  five
ſpeciallchings  that  ſerueto  diſcover  a  witch.  One  is,
thefreeconfe(lion  oftheacculed,
or  (uſpeRed  witch,  The  ſecond
istheconfelſion  ofthe  atſociats  with  the  witch.  The  third  is;Invo-
cation  ofthe  divell,  For  that  is  co  renounce  baptiſcme,and  to  make
a  league  with  rhe  divell,  The  fourth  is,  Evidence,  that  the  partic
10  hath  entertained  a  familiar  ſpirit,in
the  forme  or  likenetle  of  ſome
ſible  creature.  The  fifr  is,  Egidence
of  avy  ation  or  achions,that
veceffarily  preſu
ole  a  league  made  with  the  divell.Az
for  cxam-
ple;  ifthe  partie  ſhew  a  mans  face
in  aglaſſe  :  though
beproteile
[=  ip  league  with  thediuel,
by  whoſe  mcancs
15  tbeteatcis  wrought.
There  are  belides  theſe,  ag  wir  19  they  are  either  falſe,
or  vacertaine,  A  man  is  licke,  heefuſpeRs  that  he  is  bewitched:
heetakes  it  on  his  death,  that  ſuch  a  partie  hath  bewitehed  him.
Allttiis  is  nothing,
but  the  ſuſpition
of  one  man,  and  therefore
20  no
proofe.  Likewiſe  the  teſtimonie  of  ſome  wizzard,  is.but  the
tellimonie  of  one,  and  it  is  thediuellsteſtimonie,
and  therefore
not  to  be  received,  Againe,  neighbours  fall  out,  threatningsare
viedin  anger:  afterward  the  partie  threatned,  is  either  licke,  or
hee
dies:  heereuponthe  partiethat  vſed  threatning  words,  is  ac-
5  cuſed  of  witchcraft,  And  this  is  the  common  courſe,  But  great
ciecymipeFion  mull  bee  vied,  for  lickenelſe  and  death  may  ariſe
of  any  other  ciuſes.  Laſtly,  markes  in  the  bodies  of  menand  wo-
men,  are  vncertaine  ſignes  of  witches,  All  this  lonote  therather:
becaule  ifa  ivdgement  befalla  man  in  his  family\:preſcatly(accor-
30  cogeo  the  common  faſhion)  bee  ſaith  he  is  hurt  by-quill  coogues,
challengeth  ſome  on  of  wycdcral  =  as  his  _
ignorance,vnbeliefe,cooterypt  of  Gods  word  and
Sacraments,
&c.
are  the  onely  witches  that  burt  him,and  pull  downeGodsjudge-
ments  vpon  him,
35  Herefer  ]  The  word  herelie,  generally  ſignifies  any  opinions,
ther  1  or  bad.  More  eſpecially  it
Ggeifics  any  errour  in  reli-
giov.
Thus  Eccleſiaſticall  writers  Geet  For  they  condemne  tor
beretikes  ſuch  as  erred  in  ſmaller  points,  bolding  the  foundation,
a  Vigilantine,  Nonatus,chc,  And  the  very  opinion  that  there  are
©  Antpodes,  was  condemued  for  herelie;  though  it  beea  matterof
ſmallmoment.  Yet  moſt  properly,  Hereſie  may  be  thus  detined  :
It  u
anerroxy  in  the  foundation  of  Chriſtian  rel1g10n,  taught  and  defended
wh
Bb  4
