---
page: 374
pdf_page: 396
sortable_pagination_id: "374"
---
Chap.  5+
A  Commentarie  4p0u
382
wth  obſtimgcy.  T  hus  Poa  faith;7i2.  3.11,  that  «v  hereticke  @  peruey-
red,that  is,put  belide  the  foundation  :  apd  condemned  of  banſetſe  in
his  ſinne,  that  is  to  ſay,  he  erres  obſtinatly  even  againſt  his  owne
conſcience.
Ifoy  that  herelieis  ov  errow  in  religion,  to  put  a  difference  be-.  5
tweene  an  crrour  in  Divinity,and  an  errour  in  Philoſopby,  which
is  not  tearmed  herelie:  _  aine,  to  put  a  difference  betweene
ſchiſmeand  berelie:  for
berelie  isin  doctrine,  ſchiſme  in  manners,
order,  regiment,  Againe)l
ſay  herelie  is  an  ercovur,  i  the  founds-
tiow  of  religion,
to  Aliogaiſh\:ic  from  errours  that  are  in  ſmaller  16
points  of  Diyinity.
Some  teach  that  «
Lhraham  was:  borne  the
70,of  Tersh,  ſome
the  1.30.0t  Terab,  Both  cannot  be  true  yer
peither,  of
are  herelie,  Some  teach  that  Dawie/s  weekesbe-
iq  lraight  after  the  returne  out  of  captivity  :  others  teach  that
Bey  mul  mn
:  ar  erm  be  true  :  yet  nei-  15
ther  opinion  is  h
,  $0  there  are
ſundry
opinions  touchi
Ophir,  Tarſhiſh,  (to  which  lonab  fled)  and  Decapolis  in  the  Golpd:
andall  cannot  betrue:  yet  they  are  not  berelies,  becauſe  they  con-
cre  ”  7  imezone  places,and  6
rarer  lances  _  ible.
Laſtly,  1  fay  that  herelie  is  maintained
wth
obflenacy,  to
dillinguilh
20  *
beat  ſingle  errour.For
there  are  thice  things
in
crroxr  in  the  maine  doQtrine,commtlien  of  the  party  touchiog  hiser-
rour,and  «bfimacy
aftcr  canniction.
T  hevie,  la  that  herefic,  an  errourin  the  minde
or  vaderſtan-
diogJi  made  a  worke  ofthe  fleſh  ;  hence  a  v4
oo  15
fleſs,  lignifies
mare  then
ſexſn4/ty  :  namely,  the  Corruption
higher  powers,cuca  of  te  minde  and  conſcience;tbough  Papifts
teach  otherwiſe.
Againe,  if  hereſie  be  a  worke  of  the  fleſh,our  duty  is,  to  deteſt
and  eſchew  herelies.  And  that  we  may  for  euvr  preſcrue  ourſcluts  30
trom  fr  ohptar  rulzs  mult  be  obſerued,
|.,  We  mult  propound  yato  our  (clues  the  right  Princi
religion.  For  as  every  Art  bath  his  jv
"ryan  ard  mgy
Divinity.  The  head  and  chiete  Principle  whereotjs  ary:  we
ture  of  the  Prophets,  and  Apoſtles,  is  gimen
by
inſpiratien  of  Gods  TH  15
is  the  foundativg
of  all  truefaith:  bo  is  Fo  hinbeſ  bas
aud  flop.
T  bis  principl-  is  the  demanſlration.  of  all  daftrines,  and
lions  :  and  it  hath  no  principle  aboue.  it,  ſelfe,  »  hereby  it1is  to
be  coufirmed,  As  far  bumane  reaſon,  -it  is.vo  prociple  of  rel
gion.  For  it  is  imperfe@t  and  erronious,  and  ſerues  oocly  tomake
men  without  excule,  Indeede  in  the  minde  of  mapy  there  afe
ccrtzing  natural  cgnclulions;  that  there  1s  a  God,  and  chat  hels
to,
