---
page: 353
pdf_page: 375
---
bee  conferences
in  a  free  or  chriſtian  Conncell:  the  ſpirit  of  the  Prophezs,  is
ſabief}  to  the  Prophet,  1.  (  or.14-32.When  there arole  differences  in
the  Churches  of  ludea,  the  ApoiHes  and  Elders  came  together  to  in«
ney  4  the  mattery  After  15.6.  Andthis  is  a  thing  muchto  bee  de-
1;
in  theſe  dayes,
in  theſe  Welterne
parts  ofthe  world.
lemay  be  demaunded,
why  did  not  the  Proteſtants  ioyne  withthe
Papilts
at  the  Councell
of  Trent  ?  Anſwer.  From  the  firlt  Seſſion
it  was  morethen
ſixe  yeares  before
any  fafe  conduRt  was  giuento
the  Proteltants:  and  at  their  appearing  io  the  Councel,exception
Io  was  taken
again(t  theirletters,and  they  diſmi(ſed.  Andwhen  they
ſecond  time  ypon  new  lafe  condu,
the  Councell
was  the  next  Cp  for  two  yeares.  And  whenſafecondut
was  given  thethird
time,  the  Proteſtant  Princes  refuſed  to  ſend
their  Diuines  :  becauſe  they  had  bin  ewiſe  mocked.  Moreover,
the
;  |  i;  Counccllwas  notafree Councell  :  becauſe  the  Popehimlelte
was
The  ſecondrule.  There
wuft  be  4  Chriſtian
toler  ation  one  of an  other,
Epbeſ.4-  2,  Heere  that  wee  miſtakenot,  |  propound  two.  queſti-
ons,  One  is,ia  what  there  muſt  bea  toleration  ?  An/wer.  &  tole-
19  ſation  preſuppoſerh  an  errour
or  defeR  in  our  brother.  Anerrour
is  either  in  iadgement,
or  manners,  An  errour  in  iudgement,  is
either  in  che  foundation
of  religion,  or  belide
the  foundation,  in
matters  :  if  the  errour  bein  the  foundation,
there  is  no  to»
kration  of  it.  It  it  bee  in  ſome  leiler  matter,  a  toleration  is  to
15  dee  vied  according  tothe  rule
of  the  Apoltle  ,  Y
yee  bee  otherwiſe
winded,  God  will  reneale  it,  P  brlip.3.15.  When
$s  ſee  not  that
which  we  ſee,  wemuſt  not
ly  condemaoethern,  but  tolerate
theirignorance,till
God  reveale  his  truethvntothem.  Againe,
cr-
rours  in  manners  bee
of  two  ſorts,ſome  without  offence,as  halti-
Þ  neſſe,frowardneile,vaineglociouſnelſe,&c.  theſe  we  mult  tolerate,
Prew.19.1  1.  and  others  with  open  offence,
and  ſuch  admitnoto-
kration,1.Cor.  5.11,
The  ſecond  queltion  is,  towhatend  we  mult  toleratetbeinfir-
mities  and  ignorances  of  our  brethren  ?  Anſwer,  Toleration  mult
zz  tend
to  the  good  andedification  of  men,  Rew.15.2.  We  mult  not
ſotolerate,as  that  we  approove  of  thelealt  vice,or  betray
the  lealt
part
of  Gods  truth.
Itmay  here  be  demanded,  whether  theremay  notbe  a  tolerati-
on  for  Popery  ?  Auf.  No.  The  toleration
of  two  religions  in  ove
<0  <7  m—  the  overthrow  of  peace.  Apgaine,  Popery  is  arcligion
both  heretical  and  ſchiſmaticall.]e  may  befaid,that  faith  and  con-
ſcienceis  free.  1  anſwer,  though  faithin  the  heart,  and  conſcience
Aa  2
1a
