---
page: 355
pdf_page: 377
---
the  Epiſtle
ts  the  Galatians.
Chap..
3%}
16  Then  1  ſay,  walke  in  the  Spirit  and  ye  ſhall  not  fulfill
the
luſts  of  the  fleſh.
Foe
The  ſcope.  Here  Pax/returnes  tothe  firlt  rule  v.  1  3.and  ſhewes
4  the  way,bow  it  isto  be  obſerued,thus,  //yownlke  in  the  Spirityye  (hal
wot  fulfodl  tbe  luſts  of  the  fleſh  :  and  when  the  laſts  of  the  fleſh  are  nor
fultlled,there
ſhall  no  occalion  be  given
to  the  fleſh;by  the  vie  of
Chrillian  liberty.
F124
The  words  containe twoparts  :  a  Rule,  walks
im  the  Spirit
:  and
_—__  that  comes  by  therule,  Tee  ball  nor
firtfill  rhe  luftes
Tatherule
|  conſider  twothiogs,whatis
the  Spirit,and  what  is
walkin  naps  ft  of  regeneration;off
by  Adam,  reftered  by  -
b.1  ſay  #5.  «gift:
and
this
gift  is  tearmed  by  the  nameof
the
;  becaule  the  Spirif  worketh  ic  immediatly  in  vs,  from  the
ls
and  the  Sonne,  Againe,  I  ſay  it  is  «
gift  of  regeneration;to  make
adiſtiaRtion  betweene
it,and  civill  vertue-For
isa  gift
of  re-
generation,  which  mortifies  corruption,  and  a  gift  of  reſtraint,
which  ſerues  onely  to  keepe
in  corruption-Of  this  ſecond  kind,are
oeoarer  pac
Ee
ischalt,and  ſo  was  Xenocrares.  [oſophs
chaltity  is  a
&-
neration,  and  proceedes
from  the  Spirie  bere  mentioned,  |
but  t
icy
of  Xewecr«ter  is  not  ſo,proceeding  onely  from  the
generall
marc
of  God,and  not  from  the  Spirit  of  SanRibcation,  The
15h  v
fay  ofall  _  _  vertues.
ore  plainely,
Spirit  isa  Divine  nature,quality,or  conditi-
we  ouenedcccatinalcn  Cloth  deeded
and  holines,
The  Spirit  hath  five  properties.  The  firſt,  that  it  is  a  rich  and
Þ  liberall  grace  of  God.  For  it  containes  in  it  the  ſeede
of  all  vertues,
andall  neceilary  graces  of  God  :  becauſe  it  comes  in  the  roome  of
originall  ſinne,  which  contains  in  it,  the  ſcedes  of  all  vices
or  linnes,
The  ſecond  is  the  largenes  ofit,  for  this  Spirit  is  in  all  the  pow-
15  rofthem  thatare
that  is,in  the  mind,cooſience,wil,
afecions,and
in  the  ſenſuall
ite.1.Theſ.5.23.  Andhethat  is
Gniked  in  one  partzis
ſanRibed
in  all,  Hence  it  follows,that  they
which  have  plenty  of  illamination,  without  change  of  affefion,
and  life,are  indeed  carnalland  not  ſpirituall.
The  thirdproperty  is  ſincerity,  for  the  grace  of  God  is  with-
out  falſhood  or  guile.”  /a/ze.  33.1.Hence  ariſeth  the  difference  be-
tweene  the  godly  man,  and  21  _—_—  berweene  the  _
a  3
