---
page: 356
pdf_page: 378
---
364
Chap.  5-
Commentarie
pon
of  nature,and  the  workes  of  grace,  T  here  are
at  in  dilre(ſe
delirethe  affiftavceand  Fl.  ofGod\:and  ih  rs  ha  the
ſpirit  of  God:  for  they  do  it  deceitfully,  deſiring  Gods  fauour  not
tor  it  ſelte,.  but  inre{peR  of  ſomeevill  from  which  they  wovld  be
delinered,as  the  Mariners  in  [ouar,and  Pharcodid.  Againe,  there  5
are  men,  that  mourne  for  their  ſiynes  without  the  Spirit  of  God,
For  there  is  mach  talſhood  in  their  mourning\:becauſe  they  mourn
for  (inne  in  reſpec  of  the  puniſhment  thereot,  and\:not  in
ot  the  offcace  of  God,  Laſtly,  there  are  that
pretend  a
loueto
Godzandyet  want  the  Spirit;  for  they  loue  God
in-reſpeR  ofhis  i;
benefits,as  Saw  loued  God  tor  a  kingdome:  ſuch  loue  is  mercenary;
and  a  worke
of  nature,  whereas  the  love  which  is  from  theSpirn,
The  t
is  excellency,  for  the  Spirit  of  grace
OO  |
llency,
for  the  Spirit
of
io
Chriltians  is  more  excellent  then  ho  grace  of  Salons  in  two  15
reſpects.  .  Firlt,.io  ceſpe&  of  the  beginning  thereof.  For  the  Sp
rit  is  from  Chrilt
the  ſecond  Adaw,
both  God  and  man:
the  grace
of  creation  ſhould  have  beene  conveyed  ynto  vs  from  the'firſt
Alamy,  but  ameereman,  if  he  bad  flood.  S\:condly,in
ot  conitancy,  for  God  gaveto  Alam  the  will  to  perteuere  it  be  10
ps  yo  be
giveth  fucrher  to  beleevers,  both  the  will  to  perſevere,
and  the  deed,
O1g720
The  kift  property
is  liveline(ſe,  whereby  the  Spirit  is  effeduall
in  operation,  Ea  faith  that  the  Spirit  compelled  him,  andwat
in  him  as  avellcll  of  new  wine  which  mult  havea vent.  {ob  32.19:  1g
Ot  the  operation  ofthe  Spirit,  I  deliver  three  things.  The  fitlt,
that  the  Spirit  workes  in  and  by  the  word  of  God  :  which  there-
fore  is  called  the  Aſmniſtery  of  the  Spirit,  2,  Corm.  3.6,  The  ſecond,
that  tbe  Spirit  worketh  by  certaine  degrees.  T'be  firlt  degree
and  thevery  firlt  beginning  ofhis  divioe  operation,  is,  to  make  js
vs  tele  in  whatgreatneed  we  land  of  Chrit},  and  todelizeto  be
reconciled  and  turned  vato  God.  This  is  the  firit.  motion-of
the
Spirit  in  vs:  and  they  which  want  this,haue  vothing
as  yet  ofthe
grace  of  God  in  them.  The  third;  that  thewhole  wotke  of  the  Spi-
rit  may  be  reduced  to  three  actions,
T  be  ficlt  is;to  call  downeeut  15
ry  thing  ia  vs&that  exaltsit  lelfe  againſt  God,  2iCor.1  0.25  namelyy
to  beate  downe  erroniovsreaſon,  and  rebellious  affection,  and  to
put  a  may  out  oft  heart  with  his  chiete  dehghts,aud  with  bis  one
{clfe.  The  ſecond  action  is,tokingle  in  our  hearts  a  care  and  delre
ot  ceconciliation  with  God  in  Chriſt  ;  hencethe  Spirit  is  called  ite  49
Spirit  of  grace  41d  ſupplitation.Zach.1  2,  The  third  ation  is,towrite
the  law  in  our  beats;  andehat  is  done.  by  putting  a  pew  light  of
00w-
