---
page: 357
pdf_page: 379
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.s.
365.
knowledge  intothe  minde,andnew  inclinations  intothe  will,and
Thus  much  ofthe  Spirit,  1alking
in  the  Spirit,  is,  to
Order
our
lines  according  tothe  diretion,
motion
of  the  Spirit,  For,as
5  theSpirif  renewes  our
naroeweirtitſo
if  makes  vsto  change  and
renew  our  aQtions,in  threereſpedts,  Firlt,it  makesvs  put  a
further
beginning
to  our  ations,
then  nature
can  afford,cauling  vs  to  doe
then  is  faith,whereby
we  belecue,  that
our  perſons  pleaſe  God  in
Chriſt,that  our  worke  to  be  donepleaſeth  God,  that  the  defet  of
10  the  worke  is  pardoned.  Secondly,the
Spirit  makes  vs  doe  our  acti-
ons  ina  riew  manner,  namely,  in
ieaceto  the  written  word.
Thirdly  it  makes  vs  putanewendto
our  actions,thatis,  tointend
enddehento  beaaur  Godiachs  thiingarher  we  doe,  For  exatyple.
A  wanis  wronged  by  bis  aeigbbour
:  and  naturetells  him  that  he
'T;  mu  requite  exzll  with  exil]  ;  yet
he  reſolaes  todoe  otherwiſe  :  for
(fauth  be)God4n
Chriſt  bach  forgiven  me  many  (Innes:  therefore
mult!  forgive  my  neighbour.  And  he  remembreth  that  vengeance
i  Gods;  andthat
he  istaught
/o10  ache  pardon  as  be  forgineth  others.
And  hereupon
be  ſets  hi
to  requite  evill  with  goodneſle.
20  This  is  to  ligein
the  Spirit.
bu
ger  p
rule
we  ſee  —_—_  of  vs  faile  in  our  du-
;  Far  many  of  vs  profeſling
,  lin  not  according”
to
thelawes
of  nature,  inour  common  dealings.  We  miode  earthly
ings:
and  therefore
we  are  carnall.  It  isa  principle  with  many,
25  that  it
we  keepethe  Church,obſerue  the  Queenes  laws(which  are
indeed
to  be  obſerued)  and  auoid  open  and  grolle  (innes,  we  doe
allthat  Godrequires  at  our  hands.  Hereuponto  walke  inthe  Spirit.
is
to  bea  worke  of  preciſcnes,
more  then  needes.
And  they
which
it  to:  be  a  worke  of  preciſerietſe,  walke  oot  in  the
RY  ey  indeede  they  which  haue  receiued  the  greateit  meaſure
the  Spirit,  mult  ſay  with  Paw,  that  they  arecarnal,  ſold  wnder
ſnne,
Row,  7.14.
Secondly,  this  ruletelleth  vs,  that  we  muſt  become  fpiritvall
men,ſuch  as  make  conſcience  of  every  (inne,  and  doe  things  law-
35  full  in  ſpirituall  manoer,io  faith,and  obedience,and  not  as  carvall
men  doe  them  caroally,  It  may  befaid,;that  Miniſters  of  the  word
mult  be  fpirituall  men.1  anſwer,if  thou  whatlocuer  thou  art,be  not
ſpirituall,chou  haſt  no  part  in  Chrilt,Row.  $8,  And  tbe  rather,thou
mull  beſpirituall  z  becauſe  a  naturall  man  may  doe  the  outward
4  duties  of  religion  in  a  carnall  ſort.
Thirdly,  we  mult  not  iudge  any  mans  eſtate  before  God,  by
any  one,  gr  ſome  few  actiosn,  either  good  or  badde,  but  by  bis
Ag  4
WalkiDg,
