---
page: 38
pdf_page: 60
sortable_pagination_id: "38"
---
Chap.1.
111  \f  COnMentarig
copon
48
drenvvation
may  bea
our  ſclues  by  our  faith  #hatthere
of  the  whole mati,  They  which  learne  Chrift,cruſt  thus  leargehim,
cls  caithey  not  beſaued.  -
90271
0)
alptito
=,  crap
The  ſecond  pointis,that  Paw/mult
pprach  torbe  gentiler;thiere
be
two-caufes  ofit:\:ope;that  the  prophecies  of  the  calling  dfehegen-  5
tiles  might  be  fulfilled,P/al.2.and  120.1/45.2,  The  ſecond;becauſe
attbe  death|of  Chriſttbediuifion
which  was  betweene
the  fewes
and  gentiles
was  quiteaboliſhed.Epb.2.1  3.  Here  l
obſergethe
diffe:  '
rence  betweene  Apoltles  and  ordioary  Miniſters,  Theircbarge  is  a
ſc,and  particular  congregation  z  whereas  the  chargeof  an  Apoſtle  -
isthewholeworldu
1)
dl  0
2s
.|  The  fourth  and  lafipoint  istbeobedienceofPartothecalling!
of  God,  in  that
tie  went  axalprenchedthe
Goſpell,  Hetes  queltion'
may  be  demaunded  :.  whether  Pas!  performed  his  obedience,
vertae  of  the  grace  which  he  had  formerly  received  without  |
helpe  of  new  and  ſpeciall
z  no  ?'  Auſwere.
No.  His  '3
obedience  proceedes  from  the-firlt
grace,  -heiped-
or  excited  by
ſpeciall  grace:
.in  the
regenerate,
that  hauepower  to  doe  good,
God  workes  the
wi
the  deede,in
good  worke.Pb/.2,
x3.  And  it  is  a  certaine  truth  :  we  doe  not  that  which  we  are
ableto  doe,  voletſe  God  make\:vs  doe  it,  as  he  made-ys4ble  to  _
docit.T  herefareto
the  doving  of  cuery  new  aRt;there1s  new,  and
{pecidll  gracerequined,  ©  1  0  an  9h  0
at
In  Paws  obedience,]  conſiderthree
points,  1.When  he  obeyed?
Immediatly.  How  ?  without  dehiberation  or  conſultation.  Where  ?
1w  ,
RS
For
Godin
going
to  preach  immedi-
atly,  we  learnehow  nocietoraſie/and  echo  ralth  of  God,
that  calles  to  amendinentzand  newnelle  of  lie  :  namely
1n  all  haſt,
without  deferring  of  time.  Hebr.  3.8.70  day  if  yee  will  beare  bus  woyce,
harden  not  your  hearts
\:and
v.13,  exhort  ave  another  while  u  «  called  19'*?
day.Pſal.119.60.  I  madebaſte  and  did  nat  delayto  hrepe  thy  commande--
ment:.And  there  be  good  reafons,why  we  ſhould  nolonger  deferre
our  converſion  to  God.  Theend  of  our  life  1s
vncertaine:  and  looke
as  deathleaues
vs,  ſoſhall  thelaſt  judgement  fnde  vs.  Secondly,
3s
when  we  delsy  our  repentance,  we  adde  (inne  to  linne,  and  fo
treaſure  vp  wrath  againſt  the  day  of  wrath;  Row.e,  Thirdly,  when
we  deferre  to-obey  and  turne  to  God,  we  grow  to  perfeRtion
Es
hand
ee
Ae
ee
he
in  finne  -  and  fie  becing  perfetied  bringes  forth  death.  lam,  1.14.
Laſtly,  late  repentance  is  ſeldome,  or  never,  true  repentance.  g
For  when  men  are  dying,
their  (innes  forſake  them,  and  they
doe  not  commonly  forlgke  their  (inanes,  God  bath  called  vs  io
England
