---
page: 381
pdf_page: 403
sortable_pagination_id: "381"
---
the  Epiſtle  tothe  Galatians.
5+
all  cold
diſeaſes,and
AI
bei  leurs  the  minde  :  for  the
ts  GT  theheart  an  ——  ing
t  eli:  wo
ber
n  ns
imaginati
ed  affedons,  =
$  ths  the
diuelin  the  roome  c
*  Godsi
cavpbis  own
and  makes  the  mindea  ſhop  of  all  wickedneiſe,  Thirdly,the  vide
ingginatiogtendlaſiaiongthat  ore  in
mum  when  thay  nee
dital,
Semaine  I
they  areſober  :  ſo  as  being  ſober  they
are
40
I  Tekeeiſs,
it-is  alleadged  that  Noabs  drunken-
nelle  is  remembred  in  Scripture,but  no  where  condemned.  An/w.
While  Mele
©;  (ets  downe  the  foule  effects  that  followed  Noah:
e-hcedocth  indeed  ongemer  i  9  ew  og;  or
DOTed
10
2CrIPtage,as
warn
coal
following.
no  Experience  al
Vhielh,  1  1.  Tek  end  bis
brethren  did  Aa
ngnher,  Gene  43
.  ver.  laſt.  Anſwer.  The  meaning
of  thetext  is,
»  theme
Ee)  Caries  norealy  robe  drum  ds
not  ooly  tobe  druakein
drin-
oe  err
,  ortodrinke  of  the  beſtdrinke,
1.6,
Obiet,  I  TT,  Learned  Philitians,  as  Refs,  Avicenna,  andothers
teach,that  it  is  greatly  for  bealth,to  bee  drunke
once  ortwicein
yf  moneth,  Anſwer,  As  learned  as  they  teach  the  contrary.  And
—_—_—_—  any  vill,  or  linne  againſt  God,  for ary  good
to
Obed.  1).  Itis  ſaid  to be  neighbourhood
and
fellowſhip.
Hnfwer,  It  is  drunken  fellowſhip,  Theright  Fr  arts  is  inthe
\  ung
Prayer,  Sacraments  ,  and  the  workes
of.
-  APs
we  re  Now  followes  the pu-
niſhment  of  thern,  of  which  |  conſider  three  things.  Firſt,  a  Pre:
"  praytdoyy  meme  7  6  dent  cx  Ya
go  os  ns  cs  be
ed,  Thirdly,
rn  Ta
perſons,  in  Eos  7  ot  Thy  th
o  ithe  Premonition,is  ſet  downe  the  office  of  all  Miniſters:
and
en  to  forewarne  the  people  of  the  future  iudgements  of
their  (7
3-8-1/a.58.1.  Andthis
may  eaſily  bee
dont  For  they  may  know  the  line  of  men
by  experience,  and
