---
page: 382
pdf_page: 404
sortable_pagination_id: "382"
---
Chaps:
Conmentarie  yon  \
w/o  due  toeuery  linne,  they  may  findein
the
Againe,all  people  are  warned
this,  often  to  meditate
of  the
future.  i
s  of  God.  The  did.Dawid,  Pſal.  119,120;a0d
Paulywho
ivg  theterrour  of  the  Lord  ,  was  mooued  todoe  5
his  duticy
2.  Cor.5.11.,  The  old  world  never  ſornuch  as
dreamed
petedMenannn
them,  and  ſo  they
_——
mere  theſe  —_  -  tbr  7b
Gol
kigtome
ſometime
iment  ©
to
Re
enk,  regimen  Godembeny
CONE  beaven,whereby
God and  Chriſt  is
toallthe  EleR,1.Cor.  15.28,  And  thusit  istakeninthis
place.  And
——_—_
to  this  happy  cſtatexis  in  this  life,  when
and  lives
are  ruled  by  Gods  word,  and  1;
it,  le  wall
have
farther  beodſirued  thee
mincotaloyrating
pr.
lemalthere  fuer
beobleved
are  DO  more
but  two  eſtates  after  this  life  :  and  thereforeto
beout  of  beanen;is
to  bein  hell.
|  Thevſe.  I.  This  mult  teach  vs  above  all  things  to  ſerke  Gods  16
to  eſtabliſh  it  in  our  hearcs:  and  that  we  hall  doe,  if
we  know  the  will  of  God,and  yeeld  ſubieRtion
to  it,in  the  duties
obedience,
6&c.
WT]
rarer  pen  by  inheritance  :  —_—
there  is  no  menitof  _—_—
;  The
ithed,are  ſuchas  are  doers  and
and
Ai
ewe
ofthe  eh.  Marke  the  words,not  ſuch  as
bin.doers,but  (uch  as
are  doers.  T  he  word  bgnifies  a  preſent  anda
continued
aRt  of  doing
amille.
.  Thevſe,  Hence  is  the  difference  betweene  the  godly  many  and
zo
the  vogodly.  The  godly  man  falls  i
into  the  works  of  the  fleſh,and
beiog
he  repents
and  recovers  bimſelſe:  hee
doth  not  and
in  the  way
of  (lianers,  though  ſometime  heenterin-
to  it,P/a/.1.1.T  hevngodly  man,when  hetals,belies  (till  in  bisſis,
and  heaps  (innevpon  Hnne,and  makes  a  pratile  of  evill.
js
I  Vurning.  Tp  nan  ge
y  tothemſclucs  of  any  of  the  for-
mer  worksof  the  fl
aile  their  offences,and  |  ctady  ſes
ſakethem.  Forif  we  —_—  doersof  any  one  worke  of  the  fleſh,
there  isno0  4  ſalvation.
1  1.  Farming.  T  hey  which  baueturned  vnto  God  from  the  works  6
+  of  the  fleſh  mult  bee  conſlant,  and  take  heede
of  going  backe,
lelt
they  loſe  cthekingdome
of  God,
22
