---
page: 361
pdf_page: 383
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians,
Chap.  5.
369
havetbe  ſeed  of  grace  inthem,:  yet  doe  they  want  the  ator  exer-
ciſe  thereot  :  aud  therefore'  they  fecltenot  this  combate,  becauſe  it
ſtands  in  ation.  T  hirdly,thiscombate  is  inthegodly  for  thetime
of  this  lite  onely,  becouſsio  death  the  fleſh  is  abohſhed,and  conſe-
queng)y;
thecombateit  ſelfe.
7.
1.»  Thehfi  p93  nt
ihe  in
what  things  doeth  this  combare  ſhew  it
ſelfe.  Anſwer.
In  allthe  ations  of  men  regenerate  ,  which  Paul
lignibes,  when  he  ſaith,  Tee  canner  dos  the  thimgs  which  ye  wonld,  /
For
example  i  in  prayer,  lometime  wee  feele  ferucnt  delires,  and  ſome-
10  tins  agaog  deadnelle  of  (pirit;  ſomewmes  faith,  ſometimes  doub-
**
ting.  This  combate.  is  ig  alltheaRions
of  the  godly,fpecially1a
goodaQtiong,,  Thus  muchF  e/tezcheth,  when  tice  faith,  /  finde
by
the  Law  of  God,  that  when  1  would  doe  good,  eiill  preſent,
Kom,
7.21.
And,  1doe  not  the  goed  which  {  would,
mt  the  cuillwhich  {  wonldnor,that
15  del,  verſe  19,  Andtbat  we  miltake  nog,  it  mult  beeremembred,
that  Poul  {prakesall  thigat  himiclieas  beingregenerate  :  thar  hee
ſpeakes
it  Bhat
thisgrthat  ation,  but  of  thecourle  of  his  lite,  in
which,
he  willed  and  iadeauovured  to  do  that  which  was  good  and
acceptable  to  God.  And  that  appeares  by  the  very  words,  when
20  heflaith,  Tow/l  as  preſtne  wich  mee;  And,  /  would  doe  geod,  but]  doe  it
**  not.  Marke  further,  while  Pan!  willes  andindeauourstodoethat
which  is  good
yf  be  fail  apd  doe  amitle;hee
thay  well  fay,  &  i  nor  /
that  doe.ut,  but  the  fleſo  that  dwells  mer,  Aud.  wogodly  men,  for  the
coucripg  of  their  wickedneſſe,if  they  {ay  {as  they  doe)that  it  is  ther
25  fleſb  that  ſonnet  r,aud  nors  hey;  they  abuſe
the  holy  doctrizie  and  exam-
ple  ot  Pan.
|  14
tai.
$4
-,,  The  laſt  poiot,  cancernes  the  effect  of  the  combate  ,  which
is\:t9  hinder,  the  godly  ,  that  they  cannot  doe  that  'which  they
would,and  that  three  wayes,  Fir(t,  it  makes  them  that  they  can-
30  not  linne;that  is,live.in  praiſe  of  any  onelinne,  1.ohn  3.9.  Se-
condly,if  at  any  time  ==
fall,  irſlayes  and  keepes  them;thatthey
ſinne  not  with  full  conſcot  of  will,-  For  they  ſay  when  they  finne,
The  emill  which  |  bate,tbat.  doe  7.  Thirdly,  though  in  the  ordiparie
courſe
of  their  lives  they  doe  that  which  is  good,  yet.  by  reaſon
faile  in  the  doing  of  it,  Komanes  7.18.  To
3s  of  this  combate,  they
finde  no  meanes  to  fulfil  or  accompliſh.  that
will  i  preſent  with  mee,  but  {
which  is  good,  Evenasa  licke  mit  that1sin_recouerie,  tar  his  atte-
by  rea-
or  twainey  av  yet
Qiov,  thinkes  hee  is  ableto  walke  a  mile
ſon  of  faintne(le  and  weakeneile,  is  ſcarce  able  to  walke  once  or
49  twiſeabout  his  camber,  Sothe  regenerate  man,foraftertion  in»
Clines  to  the  belt  things:  and  yet  by  realon  of  the  flethytailesin
the  doing  of  chin.”
—_—_—
Thus:
