---
page: 362
pdf_page: 384
---
Chap.  s.
A  Conmmentarie
upon  -
370
bor,  hr  cnopmore
cher  Leptin  ta
theregater  ts)
choc  nhl
Si  eg
or
me,  in  t
\:znowt
rectly
toit,  as  a  defect  or  privation  thereof  :  —:
of  the:  Beth  is  properly  «  ſings,  whether  conſent  of
will  goe  with”
it,or  no.
Againe,  henceit  followes,  that  workes  of
the  regenerate,
are
mixed  workes,  that  is,  ood  workes  indeed,  yet  not
good,  yan  agar  wy
pd
is,  ſvch
is  the  effect:  ,,
x  the  mindeand  will
of  man,  arethe  cavſeof
res,
the  india
carnall,  and
partly
tuall,and
io  part  carnall,  Vpon
thisground
workes  of  regenerate  Su  ſinfull,and  in
deſcrue  damnation.  Obie.  Sinne
is  the
good  works  are  no  tranſpreſſion
of  the law  :
are  no  linnes,  I  anſwer
to  the  miner,  pool  he
lomo
gas  Ong  Lig  eats
ecr,and  manner  :  the  ſecond  Je,  when  chat  i
nphero  bon  reaſon  of  the
pie  d
werkermre  from
he
7  rods
tofGodi  _
"—,
my
:  Bow
>=  wenn  bo
Ce
eſe  Anda
as  effe@  proceeds  from
fore  Dkr  =
thro  wotertrong  dann
30
cauſe:  hereupon  works  are
ſpirituall,
and  part
themind  and  willof  thedoeris,
ly.it  is  alled
chat  good
workes  pleaſe  God  :  andthatthi
ing  God,  are  nolinoes.
a_  They  pleaſe
God;  becaaſerhe
doer  is  in  Chriſt,  and  ſoplea-
Echo  Ageine  they  pleaſanoe  God
before,or  without  pardon:  ;5
ed,becauſe  God  a
his  owne  work  in  vs
t  therof,
dome  obeR  on  this  manner.
ore
27  good  workes  are  finnes  :  therefore
not
to
to  be  done.  Anſwer
—_—
INF  by  ac-
cident.  Foras  God  commands  themythey  are  good:  and  as  godly  49
men  doetbern,  theyaregood  io  part.  Now  thereaſon  holds  one-
Iy  thus:  That  which  is  linnelo  farre  forth  as  itis  a  —  —_
