---
page: 364
pdf_page: 386
---
Chap.  y.
A  commentarie  pon
lotheſe  words,  Pa!  ſets  downe  three  things.  The  fel  is,  the
oftice  ofthe  ſpirit,  which  is,firit  of  all,  to  regenerate  and  renew  all
the  powers
of  the  ſouls;  and  {&fondly,  to  pou  conduQthem
ar
te,P/al,143.10.
In  this
gÞ
e  or  conduQion,
there  ace  oure  acongof  the
{pirit,  The  belt  18,Preſcrnatron,
where:  ,
by  the
holy  Gholt  maintains  thegift  of  regeneration  in  them  that
areregenerate.  T  he  ſecond  is,
Cooperation,  whereby  the  will  of
God
as  the  br{t  cauſe,  workes  together  with  the
regenerate  willot  man,
as  the  ſecond  cauſe.  And  without  this  cooperation,  mans  will
brings  forth  no  goodaQton:
no  more  then  thetree  which isapt  ton
bring  foorth  fruite,
fruite  indeed,  till  it  have  _—_—
aod  cooperation  of  the  Sunne,and
that  in  the  ſeaſon  of  the  yeare,
The  third  is,  Direftiov,  whereby
tbe  ſpirit  of  God  ordereth  ande-
ſtabliſheththe  minde,will,  and  affeQions  in  good  duties,  2.  Theſ,
ls
3-5.  The  laſtis,  Excitation,  whereby  the  ſpirit  [firres,and  (til  moves  ;;
the  willan&mattide;  afterthey  are  regenerate:  becauſe  for  the  time
of  this  life,  the  grace  of  God  is  biodred  and  autedly  the  fleſh,
Hereupon  after  regeneration  ,  there  muſt  (till  bee  new  *c/awy,
P(alm.119.36,  new  drawing,Cant.1.3.
new  working  of  the  will  and
the  deed,Pbil.2.13.
Hence  it  follows,that  beſide  the  ancecedent,and  firlt  grace,there
is  necellary  a  ſubſequent,or  ſecond  grace.  For  we  do  not  thatgood
which  wecan  doe,vnleiſe  God  @  >—pawcny  grace  make  yz  doeit,at
he  made
vs  able  to  doeit  by  the  firſt  grace.
T  heſecond  thiog  is,the
O  fiice  of  all  true  beleevers:  andthatis,  15
co  religne  themſelues  in  ſubiceion  to  the  worke
of  Gods  ſpirit,
Now
ſpirit  workes  in'and  by  by  the  word
of  God.  And
heereupon  this  ſubietion  bath  ewo  parts,  The  fir(t  is;  to  make
triall,inquirie,  and  examination,  what  is  the  good  will  of  Godin
every  thing,  Rowaner  12.2,  Thus  did  Dawid,  P/a/m.  119.941  $6
thine,  [anc  me,  for  1  ſeeks  thy  commandements.  T  he  ſecond  part
is,  to
denie  our  ſelues,
and  to  conforme
our  mindes,  confciences,willes,
affections  in  all  things  totheaforeſaid  will  of  God,Row,  12,2,  Let
all  ſuch  asdelire  to  be  ſptrituall;remember  and  make  conſcienceto
praiſe  this.
3s
Thethird  is,the  priviledge  of  beleevers,in  the  laſt  words,7e
we
Vnderltand  this,in  reſpeR  of  the  curle  and  con-
demnation  of  the  law:  for  otherwiſe  wee  are  all  vader  the  law,
"©  itistheruleof  goodlife,  The  priviledgethen  is,  that  God  doth
not  impute  thedefeUtg
of  obedienceto  ſuch  astruly  belcege  and  #0
repent,  but  hee  acceptstheir  imperfe&  obedience,  as  perfe  and
abſolute.  T
his  ſcruesto  comfort  them  that  grieve,  becauſe  wy
kecle
