---
page: 365
pdf_page: 387
---
the  Epiſtle
go  the  Galatians.
Chap.5.
373
ſeele  the  want  of  fanRification  in  themfelues,  For  ifthey  can  and
doe  will  that  which  is  good,  &indeauour  themſelves  inthe  courſe
of  their  lives  according  to  their  will,let  them  not  feareouermuch,
when  their  obedience  1s  defeQtive  :  becauſe  they  are  not  vader  the
5  tigourot  thelaw  :  and  therefore
God  accepts  thewill  and  indea-
vour  to  obey,forobedience.  And  the  conlideration  of  Gods  mer-
cifall  acceptation,mult  ir  vs  vp  to  an  carnelt  careand  conſcience
of  good  duties,
19  Moreonerthe  workes  of  the  fleſh  are  manifeſt,  which  are
,  fornication,  oncleanneſſe,  wantonneſſe,
.  20  1dolatrie,  wittheraft,  hatred,  debate,  emulations,  wrath,
contentions,  ſeditions,  hereſies,
21  Enuie  murthers,drunkenneſſe,  gluttony,  and  ſuch  like:
whereof  1  tell  you  before(  as  1  alſs  bane  told  you  before)that  they
which
doe  ſuch  things,ſhall  not  inherite
the  kingdome  of  God.
Pas!  before  delivered  his  rule  in  generall  tearmes,  Gize  no  occa-
0  jou  to  the  fleſh  :  and,
f/fill  not  the  luſt
of  the
fleſh.  Now  be  proceeds
turther  in  way  of  Gn  »  to  make  ta  rehearſall
of  the  particular  workes  of  the  fleſh,  which  were  in  vic,  and
koowne  tÞ  che  Galatians.  Avd  this  hee  doeth
for  weightie  cauſe.
Forwe
are  full  of  blindneiſe,  and  ſeenatourcorroption  :  and  wee
1  arefull  of  hypocrifie,and  therefore  ready  to  eſteeme  ourſclues  ſpi-
rituall,  when  we  are  caroall.  And  therefore  this  Catalogue  ferves
fitly  as  a  table,or  glaile,  to  diſcover  the  corruption  of  mans  heart,
by  the  fruits  thereof.
/  Aﬀter  Pals  example,  every:  man  ſhall
doe  well  to  make  a
bh
ve  of  the  (innesof  his  whole  life.  By  this  meanes  ſhall  we
better  know  our  ſelues  ,  and  take  a  manifeſt  view
of  our  ſinnefull
condition.
lo  this  Catalogue,[  conſider  three  thiogs:  the  candition  ofthe
=  the  fleſh:  the  kinds  of  them  :  andthe  pur
there-
5  of,  The  condition  is,  that  the  workes  of  the  fleſharelzid  to  bet
maniſef7,not  onely  to  God,  but  even  to  men  that  havethelight  of
and  natural  conſcience.  Hence  it  followes,that  there  is  mat-
terſuthcient  tor  the  condemnation  of  them  that  never  knew  the
Golpell.  For  though  the  fleſhit  ſelfe  be  ſecret  and  bidden,  yet  the
#  works
of  the  Pt  th  aro  maniiolt  to  the  naturall  man.  And  this  mult  .
e&  admonith  vs,  otuer  to  hide  or  excuſeour  linnes  ,  but  freely
toconfe(le  them  beiore  God,  and  before  men  allo,  when  need  re-
qu\:res.
