---
page: 388
pdf_page: 410
sortable_pagination_id: "388"
---
Chap.  5.
A  Commentarie
won
child,”/al.15.2.  And  he  whoſe  faith  failes  rowards  men,ſhal  much
-_
more  faile  towards  God,
d  <4  75
Meckeneſe  )  The  ſame  ineffet  with  long  ſuffering;  Thediffe.
renceis,that  weekeneris  more  generalhavd  /ong  /«fforing  is  the  high.
91200
10
eſt  degree  ofmeckneile,
Temperance  ]  ltis  themoderation  of  lu(t  and  appetite,  intheyſe
of  the  giftsand  creatures  of  God,  For  the  betterpraRtiling
of  this
vertue,cememberthele  fourerules.
Tl
I.  Wemull  CC  —  anddrinks.  This  moders.
tion  is  to  eat  anddrink
with  perpetual  abltinence.  And  abſtinence  us
isto  take  leiſethen  that  which  nature  deſires,and  not  more.”  And
that  meaſureof  meat  and  drinke,  w
hich  ſerues  torefreſl  nature,
and  to  make  vs  fit  for  theſeruice  of  God  and  man,  is  allowed  yyof
God,andno  more.
1  1.  Wee  mult  vie  moderation
in  our  apparell.  And  that  isto  1;
apparell
our  ſelues  according
to  our  ſexe,accordingto  thereceiged
taihion  of  our  countrey  ,according  to  our  placeand
degree;aod
ac-
cording  to  qur  abilitie.  Here  the  common  fault  is,to  be  outof
all
order:  for  none  almolt  know  any  meaſure.  Every  meane  perſon
pow  adayes  will  be  a  gentlemanor  gentlewoman.'
111.  We  mull  vie  moderationin  getting  ofgoods:  andthatiy,
toreit  content  if  we  hauefood  &  raiment  for our  ſelues,  andthem
that  belopg  voto  vs,1.7.6,8,
Here  igour  llint;we  may  not  deſire
to  be  rich,verle  9.  |  be  King  himſelte
mult  pot  multply  his  golde
and  liluer,ewe.1  7.17.  and  yet  bath  he  morencedof
goldand
fil-  15
ver,thenavy
privateman,
1  V.  There  mult  bee  a  moderation
in  the
ing
of  our
goods  :  contrary  tothe  taſhion  of  many,that
their
10  ves  =,  company
and  keepe  their  wiyes  and  children  bare
at  home.
eAganit  ſuch  there  is  nolaw?}  Heere  Paxi  ſets  downe  tots
nefite  that  comes  by  the  former  wvertues.  T  he  words  carrie
this
ſenſe:  Againlt  ſuch  vertues,”  and  againſt  perſons  indued  with
ſuch  vertues  thereis  no  law,  And  that  for  two  cauſes.  One,  there
is  no  law  tocondemne  ſuch.-  Secondly;there  isno  law  tocompell  ;;
TIER  becauſe
they  freely  obey  God,  as  if  there  were
NOW,
65237
27
Markethen  the  condition
of  ſpirituallmen.  They  areavolun-
tary  and  free  people,ſerving  God  treely  without  conltraint.  Soasif
Chriſt  would  not  givevntorthern  life  everlaliing  ,  yet  would  they  4©
loue  him,  anddelire
the  adugncement  of  bis  kingdome.  On  the
coatrary,it  there  were  po  het,and  God  would  not  puviſh  n—_—
run  cn
