---
page: 389
pdf_page: 411
sortable_pagination_id: "389"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.  5.
F  drupkenneſſe,  blaſphemy,  &c.  with  etervall  death,  yet  would  a
Chriſtian  man  abllaine  from  theſe  things:  becauſe  he  knowes  that
they  dilpleaſe  Chriſt,  and  hee  is  governed  with  another  tpirit,  to
which  they  arecontrary.
Alfothelewordsarearcaſon  of  verſe  15.  There  is  no  law  agamst
themrbat  doe  theſe  things  :  theretore  walks  wm  the  [þurie.
24  For  they  that  are  Chriſts  haue  crucified  the  fleſh,  with  the
affetions,  and  luſts.
The  ſcope.  [n  theſe  words,P.:4/  prooues  that  which  he  ſaid  im-
mediatly  before,namely,that  there  is  no  law  again't  ſpirirual  meo.
And
of  this  he  giues  adoublereaſon,  One  is,  fpirituall  men  are
Chrilts:  therefore  thereisno  law  againſt  them.  T  helecondis  this:
ts  That  is  crucified  in
ſpirituall  men,  which  the  law  condemaerh,
namely  the  fleſh,with  the  affeRions
and  lults  :  cherforechere  is  a0
law  tocondemae  the  ſpirituallman.
In  the  words,  |  conſider
three  poynts.  The  firſtis  ,  What  is  a
Chrillant  _<ofs  A  Chriſtian  is  one  that  is  Chrilts,  (faith  Pa.  )
Andheis  ChriſtsGue  wayes.  I,  By  che  right  of  creation.  Andio
accall  men,  Il.  By  right  of  redemption,  1.Cer.6.1g  111,  By
10
thefree
giftand  donation
of  God  the  Father,/ob»  17.11,  This  do-
naticn
is  begun  in  the  eternall  Eleion  of  Godzand  it  is
accompli-
ſhed  in  our  effeuall  vocation.  |  V.  Sppoopagations  For  all  true
15
vers
ſpring
out  of  the  blood
of
Chrilt  :
and  are  of  his  bone,
of  his  ficſh,
as  Exe  was
of  the  bone
and  flieſhof  Aden,  V,  By
donation  in  Baptiſme,  in  which  wee  conlecrate  our  (clues  to
to  Chriſt,
—_
"The  vie.  Thismoultreach  vs
toreſigne  our  ſelues  to  Chriltand
36  folutfer  himtoreigne  in  our  hearts:  and  to  take  the  yoke  of  the
Golpel  vpon  vs,  Buc  alas,it  is  farre  otherwiſe
with  many  of  vs.  For
ſomeliveio
of  the  very
law  of  nature,
ſo  farreare
ob
the  Goſpel.  Others  thinkeit  lufhicient  tofol-
low  theteachiogot  nature,  If  they  worſhip  God  in  fomegenerall
35  maner,it  they  hue  peaceably,and  burtno  man,and  meave  well  (as
they  lay)then  all  is  wel:  and  the  doing
of  further  duties,is  reputed
curious  preciſenetſe.  And  ſuch  perſons  viually  reduce  religion  to
the  practiſe
of  nature,  They  will  be  ſaved  by  faich:
but  their  faith  is
nothing
elſe  but  fidelity.  They  [ay  they  worſhip  God,  butthis
woes
40  ſhip  isnoching  elſe  but  their  good  meaning,
and  their  good  dea-
og.  Theſe  men  arecontentrbat  Chrilt  ſhall  bee  theirs:  but  they
willnot  be  Chrilts,and  ſuffer  him  to  have  a  lordſhip  over  theaa,
Cc4
Hl.1t
