---
page: 17
pdf_page: 39
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
bop.1,
77
ſeeke  the  glory  of  God  in  hiscalling.  And  generally,hetha
be  a  taithfull  ſeruant  of  C  briſt,moll  (er  God  before  tim  as  _
and  conſider  that  he  hath  todeale  with  God  :  and  he  mult  turoe
his  mind  and  ſenſes  from  the  world,and  all  thingstherein,to  God:
5  andcckeaboueall  things  to  approoue  his  thoughts,  deſires,  ate-
Rions,and  all  his  doings  vato
him.
Laſtly,theprofe(livn  of  the  ſeruant  of  God,  is  hereto  beobſer-
ued  in  the  example  of  Pas/,  whoſaith,  Doe  I  now  preach  men?  and,
dee  [  yetpleaſemen  ?  as  if  he  had  faid,l  baue  done  thus  and  thus,  1
10  have  preached  thetraditionsof  men  heretofore,and  I  have  pleaſed
men  in  perſecuting  the  Church  of  God:  but  I  doe  not  fo  lil,  nei-
ther  wil  |.  And
he  that  canſay  the  like  with  good  conſcience]  haue
ſinned  thus  and  thus  heretofore,  but  now  |  doc  not,  neither  will  1
ſinne  as  Thaue  done,is  indeed  the  ſeruant  of  God.
"3
11
Now  Icertifieyou,  brethren,  that  the  Goſpell  which  w  4:
preached  by  me,  was  not  after  man.
Themeaning  is  this  :  thatit  may  the  better  appearethat  |  haue
tultly  accurſed  them  which  teach  any  other  Golpel,  and  iultly  re.
20  prooued  you  for  receiving
it  :  |  give  you  to  vnderitand
ghar  the  Go-
fpel  which  |  preached  was  not  after  man,  that  is,not  deviſed  by  man,or
preached  of  mee  by  mans  authoritie,  but  it  was  trom  God,  and
preached  by  the  authoritic  of  God.  And  this  ſenſe  appeares  by
V.I0,and  12,
25
ln  theſe  wordsislaid  downthereaſon  of  the  concluſion,  or  the
alſumption  of  the  principall  argument,  which  wason  this  maner  :
If  I  bee  calledto  teach,  and  that  immediatly  of  God,and  my  do-
Qrine  betrue,then  ye  ought  not  to  bauerevolted  from  the  Golpel
which  |  preaches  :  but  |  was  called  toteachimmediatly  of  God,
30  andmy  doArineis  true.
T  he  firſt  part  ofthe  atſumption  is  here  (et
downe,and  handled  tothe  endot  theſecond  chapteriand  the  con-
cluſion(as  we  hane  beard)  waz  ſet  downe  in  the  premiles,
Hence  two  maine  points  of  doctrine  that  are  of  great  conſe-
quent,may  begathered,
T  he  firſt  is  this  \:itis  a  thing  molt  neceſla-
85  ry,  that  men  ſhould  beatTured  &  certified  that  the  doQtrine  of  the
Goſpel,andtheScripture,is  not  of  man,  but  of  God.  T  his  is  the
felt  thing  which  Paw/(tands  vponin  thisEpiltle.lt  may  be  deman-
ded,  how  this  afſurauce  may  be  obtained.  I  anſwer,thus.  For  the
ſetliog  of  our  con(ciences;that  Setipture  is  the  word  of  God  there
>  betwoteſtimonies.One  is  the  evidence  of Gods  Spiritzivprioted
and  expretſed  inthe  Scriptures  :  and  this  is  an  excellencie  of  the
word  of  God  abouc  all  wordes  and  writings  of  men,  and  Angels,
C  3
and
