---
page: 368
pdf_page: 390
---
pon
A  Commentarie
Chap.s.
376
they  deceive  themſclues:  for  God  is  vnchangeable,  and  all  his
threats  ſhall  be  accompliſhed.
And  no  adulterer,no  fcrvicatour,no
vncleaneperſon  ſhall  enter  inta  the  kingdomeof  Gad,whatſoever
men  ſuppole,or  dreame,
Secondly,by  the  coolideration  of  this  threat,we  are  admoniſhed  ;
to  fiye  adultery,fornication,  wantonneſle,&c.  T  hey  lay;thele  are
but  tricks  of  youth.  Belikethen  it  is  but  atricke,to
loſe  the  king.
dome  af  heauco.Se/emon  ſaith,  Bleſſed  is  the  man  that  feareth,  or  cau-
ſeth  bumſelfe  to-feare,  Prox.18.14.  Now  that  ſhall  be  done,  when  we
_  our  ſelues  from  theſe  offences  by  ſetting  Gods  iudgements  1;
ore  v8,
Laſtly  ſome
man may  ſay,  what  ſhall  they  doe  that  are  ouerts-
ken  with  theſe  ſinnes,  ifthe  doers  thereof  cannot  enter  intothe
kingdome
of  God  ?  Anſwer.  Their  caſe  TC;  x
is
but one  way  to  helpethemin
the  world:  and  that  is,  to  ceaſe
from  15
adultery,  fornication,vncleannes,  wantonnes,and  todoethecon-
trary.Pſal.34.14,  And  this  willdoe  thedeede
:  for  the  promile  of
God  is,be  that  confeſeth  bis  finnes
and  forſaketh  them,  ſhall  bave  mercie.
Prow.28.14.And
this  promiſe
of  God  is  not  contrary  to  bis  threat,
For
ſo  long  as  men  are  doers  of  theſe  (innes,or
ofany  one  ofthem,  16
they  are out  of  Gods  kingdome  :  and  when  they  ceaſe  to  be  doen
of  them,and  cantrariwiſeexerciſe
themſelues  in  the  workes  ofcha-
ſtity,poileſling
their  vellels,  that
is,  their  bodies,  in  ſanRification
and  honour,  thecalſcis  altered,  and  they  muſt  no  more  berepoted
C—  Far  God  accepts  men  not  as  they  have  bio)  15
u:  as  they  are,
In  that  theſe foure  linnes,
»  formication
,  8c.  are  manief
worke:
of  the  fleſb,  we  are  taught  three  things.  The  firſt  is,that  wee
a_  ltockevp  rg  t  nc
arr
councupiſcence,  Cel.3.5.  1.
4-5.
which
is  nothi
40
an  inordinate  inclination  totheſe  vices.  Aoditiemorti6edia
in  va,if
weelearne  to  feare  God  in  his  word  ,  and  in  the  commandement
that  forbids  adulterie.  For tbe  feare
of  God  clenſeth  both  heart  and
life.  Joſeph  tempted  by  his  miltristo  folly,by  this  meanes  eſchewed
the  offence,  ſaying,  ſhall
doe  this,  and  frane  againſt  God  ?  Further,  it  15
by
mult  be  remembred,  that  without  bolineſſe,  no  man  can  ſee  God,
or  have  fellowſhip
with  him.  Heb,  1  2.14.  And  while
the  luſt  of  coo-
cupiſcence  beares  the  ſway;there  is  ao  bolinetſe:  agd  theretore
no
fellowſhip  wth  God.
Theſecond  rule  is,  that  all  occaſions  of  theſe  ſinnes  mult  bee
cut  off,  two
ſpecially  ,  /dleneſſe,  and  the  pampering
of  the  bodve,  Fot
Idlenefle,  conlider  Dawid,  who  when  he  was  outof  ciuill  mand
