---
page: 370
pdf_page: 392
---
Chap.  y5-.
A  Commentarie  pon
God.  And  thustbey  ſet  vp  vnto  themſclues  a  breaden  God  made
with  mans  hand.  Anjdol,as  abominable  as  ever  waz  among  the
Gentiles.  Secondly,  it  teachethmen  to  inuocate  Angels,  &  Saints
departed:  and  thereby  it  giues  vato  them  the  ſearching  of  the
heart,  the  hearing  aod  belpingotall  men.  at  alltimes,  and  places  5
according  totheir  ſeucrall  n«ceſſitics  :  and  theſe  thingsarethepro-
perties  of  the  Godhead  .  and  therefore,whether  they  callthis  inuo-
cation,Latria,or  Donlia,it  matters  not  :  it  is  flat  idolatry,  becauſe
the  honour  of  God  is  giuen  to  thecreature.  Thirdly,  it  teacheth
that  we  may  putconfidence  in  workes,  fo  it  bedone  in
ſobriety
.  i
La(ly,it  adoreth  God,io,at,and  before  |mages\:and  fo  it  hinds
preſeuce,grace,and  operation  of  God  tothem,  without  his  word,
Papilts  alleadge  for  themſelues,  that  they  intend  to  worſhipanone
in  images  but  the  true  God.  |  an{wer;ic  is  nothing  tba  theyby.
Not  mans  intention,  but  Gods  will  makes  Gods  worſhip.  Let  els
ſhew  Gods  will,  if  they  can.  It  they  caonot,  thenthey  muſt  know
thatitis  butan  Idol-god,  which  they  worſhip.
For  there  is  noſuch
God  in  nature  that  willbe  worſhipped  in  Images,  but  an  [dol  of
their  owne  braines.  They  allcadge  againe,  that  God  may
as  wel
be  wor{hippedin  Images,  as  a  Prince  inthe  chaireof  Eſtate.  Lan-t0
ſwer,thereaſon  is  not  like.  The  worſhip  of  Images  is  religions,
the  reuerence  to  thechaire  of  Eltate,is  meerely  ciuill,  andin  ciuill
reſpec,  and  according
to  the  Princes  will,  and  ſo  is  not  the  bow-
ivg  to  [mages  according  to  Gods  will.  Let  them  prooveit  if  they
can.
T  hat  God  was  worſhipped  beforethe  Arke,  we  approveot  it.  2;
For  it  was  his  word  and  will.  Let  vs  beare  the  like  word  for  Images
of  God  and  Chrilt,  and  then  we  are  ready  toreuoke  the  charge
of
Idolatry.
Again,
by  this  weſeethat  many  of  vsare  very  carnal.
For  though
we  detelt  ewtward  [dolatry,  yet  the  imward  ido{atrte  of  the  beart  &  30
bouuds  among  vs.For  looke  wherethe  heart  is,  there  is  the  God.
Now  the  bearts  ofmenare  vpon  the  world,and  vpon  theriches)
and  pleaſures  thereof.  Forthem  we  take  the  moR  care,  andivthen
weplaccourchiefedelight,  whereas  God  in  Chriſt  ſhould  have  al
the  affetions  of  ourhearts,
js
Wachcrafi  |
The  word  gaguawie,  properly  ſignifies,  poi/aning  *
but
hereit  is  fattlytrapſlacred,  wrebeorafe:  becaule  al  poiſoning  is  compre
hended  vodermurther  which  followeth.  And  the  Magitians  of  &
gypt,Exod.7.  are  called  eaguaxtir,  in  thetranſlation  of  the  Seven,
rie\:as  alſo  the  wiſe  men./)an.2,  Now  if  they  had  bin  but  poiſoners,  #
they  badnot  bin  fits  jor  Pharaos  &  Nabuchadnezars  turne,
would  they  haue  dclired  their  preſence;and  belpe,
Wuchs
