---
page: 371
pdf_page: 393
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians,
Chap:  5.'
179
Wuchcraft,  [ignities  all  curious  arts,  wrought  by  the'operation
of  the  diucll,  For  the  better  conceivivg  of  ie  willconlider  two
things.  7  he  ground  thereof,
and  the  kind:  of  witchcraſlt.
The  grewnd,is  a  league  or  compact  with  the  divell,  It  is  twofold,
5  an  Expreſſeor  open  league,and  «
ſecret  league.  The  open  league  is,  hen
men  inuocate  the  diyellin  expretſe  words,  or  otherwiſe  make
an
manifelt  covenant  with  him.  7  he  ſecret  league  is,  when  men  vie
meanes,  which  they  know  baue  oo  force,  but  by  the  operation  of
the  digell.  And  the  very
v{ing  of  ſuch  meanes  in  carneſt,  is  an  im-
10  plicit  couenanting  with
the  divell,  If  by  truefaith,  we  makeaco-
venant  with  Godzthen  a
fallefaith;iorhe  vic  of  Satanicall  ceremo-
nies  makes  a  Coucnant  with  thedevill,  And  without  this,  there  is
nopradtiſe  of  witchcraft.
There  are  three  kindes  of  witchcraft.  The  firſt  is,  Swperi75«
15  tiow  dawnation,  which  ſerves  totell  men  their  fortunes,  or  to  re-
ucale  ſecrets  by  the  flying  of  foules,  by  the  intrals
of  beaſts,by  the
obſeruation  of  (tarres,  by  conlulcing  with  familiar  ſpirirsand  ſuch
like,  Demteron.  48.  11,  The  ſecond,  is  /agg/ing,  which  isto  worke
wonders,  or  feates  beyond  the  order
ot  nature,  as  did  the  Magi-
a0  cians  of  Egypt,  Thethird  is,  Charming,
or  inchenting,  which  is  by
the  pronouncing
ot  words  ,  to  procure  ſpeedie  burt,
or  ſpecdie
Fe  vic.  By  this  wee  ſeethat  wee are  acarnall  people.  For  in
thetimeof  diſtre(ſevpon  extremitie,figure-calting,z0d
charming,
t5  are  ouermuch  vied.  And  yet  both  of  them  are  full  of  ſuperlſtici-
onandfolly.  For  the  revealing  of  things  to  come  is  Gods:  andthe
larres  are  voiverlall  cauſes,  working  vpon  all  things  alike:  and
thereforcit  is  not  pollible  by  them  to  foretell  events  that  are  con-
opercack  And  words  have
no  forcein  them  but  to  fig-
nie,
And  therefore  when  they  are  aplied  co  cure  diſeaſes,they  are
abuſed  toa  wrong  end,and  their  operation  is  from  the  deuill;  And
for  this  cauſethey
re  to  be  auoyded  of  Chriiliap  people,  It  may
bee  ſaid,  bow may  wee  diſcerne  of  charmes,  that  wee  may  the
betterauoyd  them  ?  Avſwer.  Keepe  this  role  in  memory  alwaies.
35  Sch  obſeruations,  of  whoſe  force  and  efficacie,  thereisno  reaſon
or  caulecgither  in  the  thing  done;or  io  the  ioſtitution  of  God,haue
thejr  operation  ,  and  efticacie,  from  ſome  compa  and  focietie
NO  thedicel,  As  for  example,ſcratching  of  the  ſulpeRted  witch,
laid
to  bee  a  meanes  to  cure  witchcraft  :  but  indeede  it  is  a
©  charne,  and  a  practiſe  of  witchcraft.  For  it  bath  no  ſuch  force
from  the  inſtitution  of  God,  becaule  it  is  agaivſi  the  (xt  comman-
dement:  and  no  naturall  reaſon  on:  erent,  ENS
