---
page: 395
pdf_page: 417
sortable_pagination_id: "395"
---
the  Epiſtlerothe  Galatians.
Chap.s.
493
there
it  mult  not
be  delired.
It-remaineth  therefore,
that  vaine-
is  a  branch  of  pride,  wherin  men  principally
referre  all  their
,counſels,  in
,and  gifts,  tothe  honouring  and  ad-
uancing  of  themlelues.
5  Thenextpoitit  tobeeconſiderediis,  why  hee  admoniſheth
the
Galatians  ot  vaine
?  Anſwer.  The
Galatians
were  men  of  vn-
and  knowledge,  and  were  adorned  with  many  excel-
lentgifts.  Now,  they  that  have  recciued  good  gifts  of  God,many
timesare  molt  vaine-glorious,z.  Cor.r  2.7,  Marr.6.5.  And  whereas
16  allother  vices  feed  vpon that  which  iseuill;this  vice  of  vaineglory
cs  pr  EeT  a  m-ox0
A  third  pointto  be  conſidered,
is,  where  vaine  glorie  is  to  bee
found?  Anſwer.  It  is  no  rarematter,  butit  is  a  common  vice,and
ieſelte  farre  and  wide.  Somethere  are,which  ever  lift  vp
b5
hand  vntoGod
at  home,and  yer  theſame  perſonsiv  the
emblies;'  will  make  as  though  they  prayed  with  great
devotion,  And  whatis  thereaſon  hereot,but  this,that  they  arecar:
ried  with  a  ſpirit
of  pride  &  arrogancy,ſeeking  the  commendation
20  of  men  chat  behold  them,  rather  then  co  approove  their  hearts  and
coalciences  vnto  God.  Of  another
ſort  are  thoſe,that  haue  bin  old
andancient  hearers  of  the  word;  who  notwithftanding,do  little,or
not
at  all
profit,either
in  knowledge
or  good
lite  :  and  the  cauſe  is
notin  the  Goſpel,
or  in  the  diſpenlers
ot  ic,  but  in  themſelves  :  be-
35  cauſe  they  receiue  not  the  Goſpel  for
it  {clfe,  but  for  the  praiſe  and
commendation  oftmen,and  for  the  credit  and  account  they  arc  in,
reaſon
of  Chriltian  profeſhon.
laſt  ching  is,  the  remedy  of  pride  and  vaine  glory;  which
is  therather  to  be  thought  vpon,  becauleitis  a  great  impediment
goof  Chriſtian  love.  T  his  remedie  conlilts  partly  in  meduat10n,  and
partly  in  praltsſe.
Remedies  in  meditation,  arctheſe.  1.  God  relifterh  all  proud
perſons,
and  giuesgracetorhe  hamble,1.Per.  5.5.  the  reaſon  isbe»
cauſe  the  vaine-glorious  man,ſecking  himſelte  and  not  God;  robs.
35  God  of  his  honour.  Thusthe  proud  Pharilie  exaltiog  bimlelfea-
boue  the  pooce  Publican,went  away  lelle  iultihed,
that  is,  not  ap-
prooued  of  God,as  the  Pablican  was.
2.  It  is  the  worke  of  the
divell,  to  puffe  vpthe  minde  with  ſelfe-liking,  and  conceit,  that
therby  he  may  worke  mans  perditiop,Gen.  3.5.  But  God  worketh
4  contrarily:  tor  he  therfore  abaſeth  men,tbat  he  might  in  his  good
time  the  mareexalt  them.
3.  There  is  no  religion  in  that  heart,
thatis  wholly  bent  col&ekethe  praile  of  men,  /obn  5  44.  And  the
man
