---
page: 375
pdf_page: 397
---
the  Epyftle  to  the  Galatians.
.Chap.s.
383
tobe  worſhipped,  &e.  but  the  certentie  of  theſe  is  in  the  written
word,  We  can  by  reaſon  diſpute
of  thecreation  of  the  world,  bue
a  full  certentie  we  have  not  by  reaſon,  but  by  faith  in  the  world.
Hebrewes,  11.3,  Agaipe,  the  Papilts  makes  the  authoritie  of  the
5  Church.a  principle.  For  that  is  the  firſt  ground  which  they  lay
dawne,  that  we  mult  captiuate  our  ſenſes,  to  the  authoritie  of  the
Charch,  But  this  is  no  priaciple  in  religion.  For  wecannot  ima-
give  a  Church  without  faith\:and  faithcannotbewithout  the  word
of  God,  It  may  be  ſaide,  that  Scripture  is  the  ſenſe  of  the  written
230  word\:and  this  {enſemult  be  from  the  Church,  Aa/cScriptureit  felfe
is  both  ebegloſſe,and  the  text,  Scripture  is  the
beſt  interpreter  of  it
ſelfe.  And  the  ſeale  which  i5  agreeable  to  the  words  of  thetext,  to:
theſcopeoftbe  place,  toother  circumſtances,
and  tothe  analogy
of-faith.z  jntbe  plainer  plates  of  Scripture,  is  the  proper  and
infallible
ſenſe  of  Scripture.  Thusfetchiog  the  ſeoſeef  Scripture
ftom  itſelfe,we  ſhall  keepe  our  (elyes  wichin  the  limits  of  Scripture,
and  inthe  matter  of  our  {aluation  have  certentie  of
Faith,  hich  we
ſhall  never  hauezit
we  lilten  ro  realon,  tradition,  and  the  authority
of  men,
10.  |1-ReadethoScriptures\:and  bea  doer  ofthemn  in  the  exerciſes  of
invocation,  faith,  repentance;then  (halt  chov  never
be  a  heretike,
It  is
Gods  promiſe.  {96.7.1  7.  If  ye  will  obey,  ye  fol  know  whether  my
doitrive  be  of  God\:or  ne.  Pſal.  25.14.  The  ſerretof  the  Lordis  rewea-
led  to  them,  that  feare  him,  Market  them,  that  make  Apollalie,
become  _—  :  they  are  ſuchas  never  hada  mindeto  love
and  obay  thereligion,  in.  wbich  chey  baue  beene  baptized,  and
brought  vp.  .
I11,  Col,  2.8,  Let  no  man  ſpoile  you  through  Philoſophie,  Pal
doth  not  condemne  the  Philofopbie  of  the  Gentiles,  but  he
putsa
20  <aueat,that  it  be-vied  with  circumſpeAion,  as  Merchantsvle  the
ſea,  to  wit,  in  eſchewing
rockes,  and  ſands,  and  Pirates.  So  (tu-
dents  may  vie  the  Philoſophy  of  the  Geatiles,  but  they  moſt  take
heedelleſt  their  mindes  be  corrupted  with  theerrors  thereof,  which
are  to  be  conſidered,  Natucall  Philoſophy  gives'  too  much  to
35  natuce,or  to  ſecond  cauſes  ;  and  too  litrie  to  God,  It  puts  downe
principles  flat  again!l  the  word,  as  the  eternity  of  theworld,  and
the  mortality  of  the  ſoule.  Moral!  Philoſophy  placeth  happines
iaciuill  vertue,  out  of  Cheilt  :  ic  teacheth,  that  vertue  is  a  meane
or  mediocrity  of  atf-tion,_whereas  in  true  vertue  there  is  not
46  One'y  a  reftraint  or  moderation  of  atteQions,
but  allo  the  renoua-
tion  ofthem  by  regeneration,  It  tezcheth  that  Vibanity  in  jeſting
and  frumping,is  a  vertue  i  Par!  faich  no,  Fpb.  5.4.  1t  teacheth  that
Magnant-
