---
page: 376
pdf_page: 398
---
Chap-3-
A  Commentarie
pan
334
Magoanimitie,  whereby  a.man  thinkes  hinlfelfe  worthy  of
honovr,isa  vertue:  but  it  is  contrary  to  Chriltian  homilitie;Sfaim
131.4,2.  Laſtly,  it  teacheth  that  man  hath  a  freedome  of  will  in
good  ations;  which  dodrine  applied  by  the  Schoolemen  to  mat-
ters  af  religion,  is  talſe  and  crrovious,
Thethird  head  of  (innes,are
fuch  as  are  againſt  Cherity,and  they
are  in  number  eight.
The  frlt  is,  Enmirie  :  of  it  I
conſider  three  things.  The  firſt  is,
whether  it  be  a  linne,or  no?  for  ſomewhat  may  be  obieRed  to  the
contrary,
Obreft,  1.  Pſal.139.21.  Doe  |  not  bate  them  that  batethee  ?  Anſwer,
ie  oF  arpatnn
ke  aaa  of
their
enertne
notia
tinre
of  their  linnes
by
they  wareenies  of  God.  And  this  batred  is
commendable,
and  not  hereto  be  vnderſtood.
uy
Obieft,  1  I,  Luks  14.26,  Hee  that will  bee  a  diſciple  of  ('brift,
uſt
hate  father,  and  mother,
and  bis  owne  ſoule.  Anſwer,  This  batred  is
not  limply  commanded,but
onely  in  a  certaiverc{pe  &,namely,  as
father,  and  mother,and  a  mans  owne  ſoule,  are  in
poledto  God,  and  Chriſt,  in  regard  of  whom  they
are  vtterly  to44
be  deſpiſed.
Obutt.  I  11,  Romanes  9.  God  chiſe  Iareh  ,  aud  bated  E(an:  and
wee  mult  belike  vato  God.  Ayfwer,  Weareto
be  likevato
God
ia  holine(ſe,  and  the  duties  thereof,  and  not  in  the
and  Lordſhip  ouerthe  creatures,  whereby  be  cither  loues  or  hates  24
ObieR.  1).  It  is  the  vniuerſall
nature  of  all  creatures
to  flie
their  contrary  :  therefore
men  may  hate  their  enemies.  Anſwer,
Man  and man  are  not  contrary
in  oature,or  oaturall  properties:
bot  ereallone  Raſh:  thecontegrtatiotit  le,js  by
reciog  of  (nai  3
"Thabeans  patoraculioris  hi
tie?  Anſ.  It
"uu  wo  *
40182
Silpoltiongt  mi
whereby  men  remember  inivries
ies,  and
es,and  carry  about  them  a
£0  requite
like  for  like,  when time  and  place  ſhall
Eſau  hate  [aceb,  Geneſ,  25.41.and  Abſolow  his  brother  Amwer,  2,
SamvelT},
The  third  point,  where  is  this  Fumitie?  Anſwer,  E
among,  vs  Forwee  |  pes  aided  exuief
agein(l  tarnily,and
corporation
againſt  corporation.
This
that
wee  are  caroall;  and  that  Gods  kingdometakes  no  place  #4
mong  vsazit  ſhould,  Forin  itthe  lambe  and  the  wollſe  quay  |
