---
page: 377
pdf_page: 399
---
the  Lipiſile
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.  5.
dwell  togetber,/a.11,  The  remedy
of  this  enmity  is,  Thatall
be
of  one  mindegdelire.and  aff<Aion,in  the  receiving  and  furthering
ofthe  Goſpel  of  Chrilt,  1.Cor.  1,  11.  If  in  themaine  point  there
be
a  concctd,  ip  lefler  matters  the  agreement  will  be  ealie.
Debae}  It  isa  contention  io  words,  whereby  men  ſtrive,  who
ſhall  ſhew  moſt  courage,  who  ſhall  get  the  vicorie,and  who  ſhall
carry  away  the  Ialf  word,  noreſpe&  bad  of  equitie,  or  tracth;  In
this  reſpeA,crymng,  or  /fting  vp  the  wore  in  reaſoning,
is  condemned,
Epbeſ  4  31.
10  mains  ]  There  is  4  good  emn/at10n,  and  that  is  when  men
ſkige  to  beeliketo  them  that  excell  in  vertue,  or  to  goe  beyond
them.  And  it  is  commaunded  by  the  boly  Ghoſt,  1.  Corinth,  14.
13,  Befidethis,there  is  a  carna//emmniation,  whereby  men  that  excell
in  avy  thing,  grieve  that  avy  ſhould
be  equall  tochem,  or  goe  be«
The  vie,  If  to  grieve  at  avother  mans  Excellencie,  bee  a
worke
of  the  fleſh,  then  it  is  our  duetiectoreioyce  inthe  excel-
kacie  of  others.  T  hus  did  Moſes,  when  Eldad  and  IMedad  pro-
|  Pheied,  Nunnbers  11.29.  And  [ohnthe  Baptift,  when  Chriſt  increaſed,
iy  a4  bee  decreaſed,
lobn  3.29,30,  And  Pea  gave  thankes  as  well
for  the  graces  beſlowed  on  the  Churches,
as  for  gifts  beſtowed
on  him(cle.
Anger  ]
Of  it  I  con(ider
three  points.  Thefirlt  is,wbether  there
be  any  lawtullanger  ?  4-/w.  Yea.  Chriflt  (io  whom  was  no  finne)
ig  was  avgry,  Marke  3.5.  Whenthereisaiult  cauſe
of  anger,ther  is
hen  there.jsa
mani
of  Godthere  is  aivlt
Nieto  beeaogry  ,Fecte/.  7.  1  1.  and  are  offended  at
every  thing  that
#  goeTagaratWheir  minds.Or  againghaviog  a  iv
to be  avgry)
EH)  keeps  00
meaſure  their  ger
he  thied  paynt,  is  the  remedie,  And  that  is  here  fer  downe,
HalVinctſe  is  a  worke  of  the  fleſh,  or  of  corrupt  nature,  and  it
barres  men  from  the  kipgdome
of  heaven:  and  theretore
it  ist0
1;  be  auoyded.
Comentwn]  There  are  ſundry  kindes  of  lawfoll  contention:
a3
contentign  with  the  enemic  in  ivit  warre:  cont
the  _
indiſputatio
2  conrention
vban  herriker  contention  in
Shok
diporaton  fo  exec
P  andtriall  fake.
—O
——
vntention  k  carnall,
and  ſingefull,  in  reſpet  of  mattopana-
manner,  1a  matter,
tor  which  chey
when  men  contend  forth!
ings
ſhould
