---
page: 378
pdf_page: 400
---
Chap.s.
A  Conmentarie
pon
ſhouldnot  contend,
as  the  diſciples  forprimacie,L»ke  22,  or  when
contention  iewithoutſargiuin  ——  or  ſuffering;  and  that
io  triflivg  matters,  1.Cor.6.7,
Contention  likewileis  faultic,
in  res
ſpe  of  maner,  when  men  wilfully  defend  their  owneprivatecau-
{(es,noregard  had,  whetherthey  bee  right  or  wrong,  truevurfalſe:  5
and  by  this  meanes  they  often  oppugne  truth,  or  iuſtice,  oeboth,
Ofthus
kinde  are  the  warres
of  therebell  io  [reland  :  the  warres
of  -
the  Spanyard  inthe  low  Countries:  and  the  ſuits  of  many  quarrel-
ſome  and  contentious  perſons  among  vs.
The  vſe.  Doe  nothing  by  contention,  0
Ou  And  therefore  io
wal  mult  forgiue,
put  vp,as  muchas  may
bee,  and  yeeld
of  our
right,
were”  #3  ]  The  originall  word  ſignifies  ſuch  diſſentions  in
whictTren  ſeparate  one  from  another  -  and
that
is  done  two
waies,  either  by  ſchiſme
in  the  Church,or  by  tation
inthe  Com-  15
«cition,  Why
arenot  we'Schiſmatikesin
Germanie:  conſidering
wee  haue  diſſented  and  ſeparated
our
ſclues,from  the  Church
of  Rome?  Anſwer,  We  indeed  haveſepa-
rated  our  ſelues,butthey
ofthe  Church  of  Rome  are  ſchiſmatikes:  :0
becauſe  the  cauſe  of  our
ion
is  inthem  :  namely,  their  I-
dolatry,andtheir  manifold
berelies.  The  caſe  is  the  like:  A  man
threatens
death  tohis  wife:  hereupon
ſhe
es.  Yet  nothhe,
but  he  makes  the  ſeparation:  becauſe  the  caule  of  ſeparation,and
the  fault  isin  bim.
INE
»  ru
'T]
2m
th:
Pros.14
21,  Fearethe  K
mm
very,
that
is,  wake  alterations
the  lawesof  God,andthe  King.  Indeed,ſubiets  may  (ignifie  what  39
is  good  forthe  State,  and  what  is  amitle  :  but  to  make  any  altera-
tion  intheeſlate,cither
Ciuill,or  Eccleliaſticall,  belongs  to  the  ſa-
preme  Magiltrate,
Ay
Em]  It  isacompound
of  carnall
and  hatred.  For
it
[oy  +
ine
at  the
good  things
of  orhery,
and  f@  z5
things
themſclues.  -  T  has  the  high  Prieſts  of  envy
ed  Chriſt,  and  all  bis  moſt  excelleot  ſayings,  and  doings,
Mathew  27.  18,  At  this  day  ,  they  which  haue  any'good
things
in  them,  are
condemned
for.  hypocrites,  and
—_  Religion  for  bypocriſie,  All  this  is  but  the  cenſure
of  {
l  e
Thevſe.  That  we  may  depart  from  Enuy,wee  mult  love  fo
