---
page: 403
pdf_page: 425
sortable_pagination_id: "403"
---
The  Epiſtle  Dedicatorie.
bath  often  ginen  ou  diligence  and  dexteritie  in  that  behalfe,  Now  {it
mee  adde  this  one  thing  that  thyrigh  theye  bee  not  the  like  efficacie  in  a  dead
letter  ,  that  is  in  a  lively  worce,  yet  the  bare  reading  of  the  Scripture  is  of  >
great  and  ſingular  vſeywhich  my  appeare
by  this that  it  tr  ſo  rf1en  comman-
ded  by
precept  ond  fo  big  bly  commended  by  the  prathiſe  of  the  Sams:  and
fo
fraightly  forbudden  ,  as  by  cruell  Antiochus,/0  by  the  Romane  Ant.  *  -Macc.t,6a.
chit  :  neither  dare  I  deny  but  that  God  hath  and  doeth  1c  it
,not  onely  as
4  meanes  of  edification  »  but
alſo  of
working
the  conner  ſion  of  many  of  his
ſernant;,as  Augultine  confeſſeth  of
buwſelfe  that  be  was  converted  by  rea-  Confell.lib  8.
71  Fes  Paul,  Rom.  1  3.14.converted([  ſay)  not  as  an  beretikhe  ©3P-12  +
only  which  is  reclaumed  from  bis  errouous  opinions,  but  as  a  loſt  ſheep  which
i  redaced  and  browght  bome  from  the  erronr  of  hisway,  Notwithſtanding,
in
reading  the  Scripemre,  to  goe  alone  is
not  ſo  ſafe  :  @  guide  therefore  is  ne-
ceſſary\,as  the  Enmnuch  confeſſetb)whichmay  be  as  the  Mercorialis  ſtatua,  At-s8.;.
19  point  4
man  18  the  right  way,  And  this  guide  is  eutber  the  outward,  or
the  ward  guide:  the  outward  guide(  |  ſpeaks
of  reading  onely  )i4  a  Com-
mentarie,  aſpecraly  ſuch  a  one  as  4  ſanttifi-d  ſpoit  hath  much  breathed
:  ſeemg
it  us  the  beſt  lecrning  the  T  heorick  of  bum  which  iz
th\:lfull  n
the  Praticke.  The  inward  guides  the  ſpirit  of  Rexelation,  which  dwel-
lth  only  in  an  bumble  docublr,o  obediemt  beart  which  whoſoencr  bringeth,
bath  a  promiſe  that  be  ſhall  know  the  truth,  lohn  7.17,  and  vnderſtaud
the
ſecrets  of  God  ,Plal.25.14.  and  without  which  the  Seritures  are  but  45  4
riddle,
or  claſped  booke.  For  the  full  andperfelt  knowledge  of  theword
on  omn
avd  feeling  that  i,  10
confifterb  (45  Epipbanivs  /airb)  in  vnderſtanding,
nt  in  bare  (pecul.ation  onely  [wimming  in  the  braine,  but
in  «  ſenſible  ſaumg  PE  Ce
hunwledge  ſinking  into  the  «  ffeltrons  of  the  beart  :  and  by  this  latter,  the
comfortable  meamng  of  the  Scripture  is
better  underſtood
,  then  by  all  the
ons  of  the  mo(}  currous  Sheptiher  :  as  the  ſweetne
(ſe  of  bony  is  better
in  4  moment  by  bim  that  tafteth  it,  then  by  thoſe  th.t  ſpend  many
bowre;  un  the  contemplation  and  diſcourſe  of  it.
But  I
forget  my  ſelfe  very  much
in  taking  pon  we  to  readas  lefture  to
ſuch  an  exerciſed  ſcholler  im  the  books  of  God,  Therefore  witho:'t  further  1n-
Saation,cu
ber  for  p  don  of  my  beldnes,or  acceptance  of  my  pames,  1  coms-
mend
you  to  God,  and  to  the  word
of  his  grace,  which  is
able  to  builde  you
forther,  and  gine  you  an  inheritance  among  all  them.  which  ave  ſantiificd.
From  Ecmanuel  (ledge,  Augull,  13,  1504
A  louerof  your  Worthips  vertues
in  all  duties  to  command,
Ratret  CypyvoRrtTaH.
Dd  3
