---
page: 383
pdf_page: 405
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.s.
391
22  =
the'
Fat
ws  da
Pirit.s  loutoy  peace  long
[affering,
ME
2J
oops,
:  4g
ainſi  ſuch  there  is
no  law.
\Forthe  better  obſerving  ,  and  the  more  eaſje  vaderſtanding
downe
aud  here  (ets
the  ſpiricyP
ol  cheruleinthe.n6.yerle.  Walkg5n
Catalogue  of  the.  workes  of
-10the  Catalogue  |  con-
bder  threethiogs\:the  propertie  of  the  works
of  the  ſpiri,iothefs
eds  The
freveof  th
pos:  the  kindes  of
works,
F  gen  yy  pore  Fur
\  properticof  theworks  of  Gods
ed  thi  fruiter  of  the  Spire,  And  by  this,mucb
is
the  Church  is  thegarden
of  God,  Cant.4.
IP  Iy  mr  bf  eine  yr
L21
1.3.
that
jet
hes,  and  good
wonnd  recon  it
beare.
;  VI
theworkes  of  theſpirit,are  called  france
win  yrs
it
followes  ,
that  there
are  00  true  vertues,  and  good  affetions,
thebavken,
erat.  Tha  ywines  of
grace  ol
—_
were  but  ſhadowes
eo
excellent  ſoever  they  ſeemed
=_-  and  ſerved  onely  tg  rellraing  the  purward  ans  and-ao
"  Agin
achere  weldethe  efficacy  ofthe  Spirie,which  mokes  men
,arbearing
trees  of
righteoulnelle,  P/a/,1.3.  yeaztrees  that
dearefrujte
io  their  old
age,Pſal,  92.14,  Here  kom
downe  auri{clues,  Forthemolt
of  vs  are  barren  pru-Geidovyep
©  froite,but  the  bad  fruits  ofthe  fleſh:  and  there
mayiultly
fearethe  eurſethat
God  laid ypon  the  tigtree,
Luky  1  3,  7.a0d
—_  be  (locked  vp,A/tt.  3.15.
ood  workes  are  made  acceptable  to  Godeven  by  bis
CITE  are  called  the  fruits  of  rhe  ſpirit  3  and  hence
p  Rwthrthey  aac
areacceptabletoGod,  Reow.15.1.6,  Wee  that
nafure  wild  branches,muſt
be  taken  out  of  old  Adw,and
ſet  into
Chriſt:  and  after
our  inſition
draw  a  new  ſappe  and  lite  from
Chrilt,namely,bis  ſpiric,andthep  nan  be  fruits
of  the
ſpit,avd  cooſequently  areytablora  God,
4c  Lallly  hence  irf
ifollowes,
that  face  will  of  it
ſelfc,islikea  dead  or
rotten  piece  of  wo0d,and  that  it  bearcs  no
fruit,butas  it  is  quick-
ned  by  the  Spirit,  lob»  35.5.
Ce.
Thos
