---
page: 406
pdf_page: 428
sortable_pagination_id: "406"
---
A  commentarie  ff  on
Chap.6.
496
J/racl.  1.  King,  18.  18.  the  (inve
of  falſe  Apoſtles  that  woabled  its
Ga/ertaxs,Gal.s  10.  Nay,  it  drives  men  beliderbemſclues,  as  ap.
-earesin  the  ex\:rople.of  the  prodigat!  foone;  whorepedtiog  of
tis  liones,  is  faid  ro  have  cometo
bim  ſelfe,,  Luk,  15.17,  Small  ling
are  like  to  ſlipps  and  flidings,  wh
.$
ſelves,  but  great  ſinvesarehike  don  nefalls:  foras  they  wound,
lame,  dilioynt,  or  breake  fome  member  of  (hc  bedy  Ho
theldde:
wound  and  walle  the  copſcience.
T  bereforeas  Earns
our  bodies,  to  audid  downehlapought  weto  beas  carefull,oy
a  thouſand  times  morecare
our  ſoules,  to  take  heed  of  the  40
downefalloflione,or  falling
away
from  grace.  Avd  as  we  ſhunge
anyceor  [lipper]
dr
teare  C  l;dix
ang
lliog:  fo
we
ta  (hunne
the  ſmallelf  ones,
andthe
he  it
occaions  of
lope,  if
feare  of  making  a  breach  in
conſLICOCE.  SECOD  y.  |
gather
that  (4nners  are  notto
their
repeotance\:aor
thoſe  that  aft  15
toadmoniſh,  their  reproofes  :  for  "=55  is  the  k
of
bone,  or  Cilioynting
of  a  ;  ——  2pd  reproofe  is  the
fettii
in  order  againe,  Now  the
a  bone  newly  brokeo,
or
ofnt,  is{et,the  ſooner  it  is  reſtored  to  his  right  m——_
So,  the  ſooner  a  man  after
his  fall  is
admoniſhed,  the  ſooner  and  14
more  calily  ſhal  he  be  able
to  recover  himſelte;  Thirdly  ,chisThews,
that  it  isa  point  ofgreat  (Kill,  to  bring  a  Toule  in  order  andirame
2230,  [Here  is  great  dextericy  required
in  (etting  of  a  bone,
dr,  though  Ginners  beſo  loath
to  be  reprovocd  an  cept
bh
vnto
them,  20d  tkarle  their  friends,  which  iabour  to  reclaime  them:
hone  brokep,or  out  of
ioynat,can  hardly  endure  tobeve  irropehed,
ar  pointed  at.La(lly,io  that  S.  P-»/commands  thoſe  that  are  ipk  15
ga  vs.la\:thew  18.10  we  may  not  re(lore  our  brother  wile,  ot
e  onely,  but  #or1e-,q444.+  a5  Oftenas
be  Thy)  lrnne  againT'vs.
p—_
