---
page: 407
pdf_page: 429
sortable_pagination_id: "407"
---
Matth  +18.  If  be  fine  agar  ft  thee,
Therefore
ic  were  to  be  w
have  a  care  to  retiore
their  decaied
li
my  ſticall  body,
5  lame
©  Thelecond  thing  to  be  confidered,  isthe  perſon  to  be  reſto»
red,andtbat  is-every  one  that  is  prevented  and  overtaken,  eit
by  the  (leight
of  Sathan,  or  al
ailurement
of  the
ofhis  anne  aſh:
(fob
el]
the  boly  Ghoſt,  nor
e  linoe  not  againf
19  opeoly  (korpe  religion,  and  diſcipline.  )  ad  eter  who  fell  boeing
overtaken  om  feare,  and  Dazid.with  overmuch  plea-
ſure.  Hence  welee  the  ſubtilcy.
of  Sathan,  whois  alwaicstrippitg
atthe  beele,  labouring
to  ſupplent  vs,  asaifothe  deceitfulnes  of
ſine,  preventing  and  overt
V3,betore  we  be  aware.  \Veare
15  theretoreto
be  cucumiped  and  carejull,  le(t  we  be  ſupplanted.
The  Apollle  edmoniſheth  vs  is  take  breds  /eft  we  be  hardened  ihr0:  gb
the  decertfrlnes  of  firme,  Heby,  3.3.a0d,thas  we  walks  crremmſpettly
not
41  fookes  1  but  ar  we,  Epb,s.15.  that  we  w.ilhe  wath  «rmpht  foote.  Gal.
1.14.  and,  moly  firaxgly  fepper  mio our  feete,  left  thit  which  is  bats
10
ting
be  turned  ont  of  the  way,  Hebr.12.1;,  For  as  thoſe  that  wraflle
>.  cw
malteries,looke
warily  to  themielocs,le(t  they  be  ſupplan-
ted  by  their  adverſaries:  ſo  ought  wemuch  more,  conſidering,  we
proncs
waſte  not  againſt  ficſb  and  bload,  but  agamſt
es  and  powers,
Epb,6.22.
br
it  is  ſaid  gf  wen  be  owrrtahowby  any  fn,  be  teach-  =
be
man
is  exempted  from
falling
dehnitgly
f  «mas,
as  S.  /obu
ed  by  (inne
:  for  be  ſpeakes1
any  man  finne,we
bane  an  aduecate.'  1,  Job.2.1,T
his  makes  a-
{}  the  Cathar;ftr  or  Prritaner,  whoauouch,  they  neither  have
40  —_  can  (inane:  becauſe  they  be  trees  of  righteoulnes  z  and  4
good  tree  cannet  bring  forth  exull  frane,
Further,  hence  gather,  that  pardog  ang  reftitution,isnot  to
bdedenied  to  them  that  fall,  after  their  conueriion;asthou
nthere
were  no  place  for  repentance,  or  hope  of  faluation.
or  Paxl  ©
—_—  —  ——
vertaken  þ
15  Fould
have ſuch  to  be  reſtored,  as  are  0
any  L  moe,
except  they  be  incorrigible,  and  incurable.
tbe
Nowa-
,  that  linnes  committed  after  a  mans
tizns
doe  erre,  in  teachi
conuer(ion,are  vopardonable,  conliderng  there  is  hopein  ſtore,
forgreat  and  hainovus  (inner+,For  though  a  manin  periecytion  de-
(9  fy  Chrillaud  renounce  his  religion,yet  be  may  be  re{tured,andie-
petit  as  Peter  did,  Lxh.22.32.
(tortbatfaying  of  Chriſt,.  Wboſoexcy
fall  dente  we  before  nee,  bun  will  {  aemy  before  my  father  which  11  im  bea-
HEM
