---
page: 387
pdf_page: 409
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.s.
deadz&  ceremoniall  faith,in  many  men.Reaſon,  I.  Faith  comes  by
the  hearivg  ofthe  word  of  God  preached;Row.10.14.but  this  faith
is  conceived  without  preaching\:for  they  (ay  they  beleeue
their
alvatioo  by  Chri(t,  and  withall  they  livein  the  perpetuall
5  vegleRt  orcontempt  ofthe  publike  Miniftery,  [1.  True  taith  is  ioy-
nedalwaies  with  the  exercites  of  innocation,and  repentance  :  yet
jomany  a
Vs,  this faith  is  without  any  conver(ion  or  change
of
heart  and  life:  and  thertore  it  is  buta  dead  faith.[11.  True  faith  is
|  mixed  with  cotrary  vabcleete,lo  as  they  that  belecue,feele  in  them-.
1b  ſdlucs  a  want  of  faith,and  much  vnbelcefe,  Batthere  are  many  a-
vs  that  ſay,they  perfeQly belecue,  and  that  they  never  fo
as  doubted  in  all  their  lives.
Now  ſach  a  faith,  isa  vaine  per-
ſwalion.  1V.  Many  that  boaſt  of  theirfaith  in  Chriff,want  faith  in
the  prouidence  of  God  ,  touching  food  and  raiment,  And  that
1;  is
manifeſt,  becauſe  they  vicany  lawfull  meanes  to  belpe  them-
ſelves:  now  if  their  faith
failethemin  a  ſmaller  point,  it  cannot  be
ſound  inthe  greatelt
of  all.
Secondly,  by  faith  is
meant  faith  towards  men,  and  that  t2nds
intwo  things.”  Oncis,to  ſpeaketherructh  from  the  heart  :  the
o-
-  totheris,tobe  faithfullandiutio  the  keepiog  of  our  honeſt  promile,
and  word.
Thisfaith  isa  rare  vertue  io  theſe  dayes.  For  the  common  fa-
ſhioa
of  them  that  live  by  bargaining,  is,  to  vie  gloling  ,  facing,
othiog,  lying,  diſſembling,
and  all  manner  of  ſhitts.  And  with
15  many
it  isaconfelled  principle,that  rhere  is
no  /wning  in  the  world,  on-
heſſe
we  lie  and  diſſewble.  T  hey  that  deale  with  chapmen,  ſhal  bard»
«  know  whatis  tructh,  they  baveſo  many  words,  and  ſo  many
:  In  this  reſpeR,Chriſtians  come  ſhort  of  the  Torks,who  are
=_  be  equall,open,and  plaine  dealing  men,  without  fraud,  or
3  Our  caretherefore
muſt  bee  tocheriſh,  and  maintaineamovyg
vs.;the  vertue  of  faith,  and  truth.  Reaſons.  |.  Gods  commande-
ment  ,P  «t
ging  end
let  every  man  (peaks  the  truth  to  bis  nerghbour.
Bpbef:  415.  |
.  By  ruth  wee  arelike  to  God,whole
waies  are  all
35  truth  :  wbo  bates
lying  tongue,Pron.6.  17.  wholeſpirit  is  the  ſpi-
ritot  truth,  111,  Lyars  bearetheimageof  che  divell.  Hee  is  the
father
of  lies,/obn  $.44.  So  oft  then  as  thou  lieſt,  thou  makeſt  thy
tongue
the  inſtrament  of  the  diuell.  1  V.  Eternall  puniſhment
in  the
lake  that  burnes  with  fire  and  brim(tone,  Rewel.22.15,  Here
©  marke,  that  liars  are  entertained  at  the  ſame  table  with  murde-
rers  and  theeues  »  and  the  liar  never  goes  vnpuniſhed,  Pr  ow.  19.5.
V.  To  ſpeake  the  tructh  from  the  heart  ,  is  a  marke  of  Gods
Cc  3
chil,
