---
page: 41
pdf_page: 63
sortable_pagination_id: "41"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap.r,
Fl
preſently  after,  before  he  began  to  preach,heis  caried  intothewil-
dernes,to  be  with  wild  bealis,and  to  betempted  of  the  diuel,  Afar.
1.9.12.  Andthereaſonsof  this  dealing  of  God,  aremanifeſt  :  by
this  meanes  ſinful  men  are  made  fit  for  the  office  of  teaching,  For
5  theſaying  is  true,Readingyproer,  C>  temptation,  make  a  Diuine.  Again,
by  this  meanes  they  are  cauſed  to  depend  on  the
prouidenceand
proteRion  of  God,and  they  are  made  fit  forthe  afliſtanceand  pre-
ſence  of  Gods  ſpirit,  who  dwels  onely  with  them  that  are  of  ham-
ble  and  contrite  hearts.  Now  then  let  not  them  that  iv  any  notable
20  change  of  their  lives,  find  notable  temptations,
be  diſcouraged;for
this  is  a  condition  that  befals  them,by  a  wile  &  ſpecial  providence
of  God.  For  it  was  tbe  Spirit  of  God  that  led  Chriſt  intothe  wilder-
neſſe,to  be  tempted;after  his  baptiſme.
Againe,  heere  weeare  taught,  to  acknowledgethree  things  in
x5  God.  His  power,in  that  heſfets  vphis  kingdome,  whereit  is  molt
gned,and  reignesin  the  midlt  of  his  owne  enemies;  namely,
the  wicked  and  ſavage  Arabians,  according  to  that  in  the  P/a/me
110,v.2.  His  goodneſle,in  that  he  ſends  Pa»/to  preachrepentance
to  the  people  that  arein  the  ſnare  of  thedivell  at  bis  will,  2.7.  24
20  26,  His  trueth,  in  that  heenow  fulbils  things  foretold  by  Dawid,
Pſal.  72,  10.  The  Kings
of  Sheba  and  Saba  foall  bring  gifts:  that  is,
Ethiopiansand  Arabians,
18  Then  after  three  yeeres,  1  came  againe  to  JeruſalenL,to
25  viſue  Peter  and  abode  with  him  fifteene  dayes.
P«x/haying  prooued  before,  that  he  learned  not  the  Goſpell  of
any  man,nonot  of  the  Apoſtles  at  Hieruſalem,
goes  about  now
to  avſiver  exceptions  that  might  be  made  again(t  his  reaſon.  And
firſt  of  all,it  might  have  bene  obieRed,  that  bee  was  ſeene  at  Hie-
30  ruſalem  ſundrie  times  :  and  therefore  in  all  likelihood,  went  thi-
therto  be  inſtruRed.  To  this  hee  anſwers  threetbipgs:  that  bee
went  thither  chree  yeares  after  his  converlion,  and  not  before:  that
he  went  to  24ſite  Peter:  that  he  abode  there  fiſterne  dayer.  Fotthe  hilt,
where  lieſaith,;he  preached  three  yearesin  Arabia  and  Damaſcus,
35  and  then  after  went  to  Hieruſalem,and  abodethere  fifteene  daies
(for  ſome  ſpeciall  cauſes:  )  we  ſee  Pas/isreadie,and  abletomake
a  good  account  of  the  ſpending  of  his  time,  buth  for  daies  and
yeares.  And  good  reaſon;  for  time  is  precious,and  great  care  ought
to  be  had  of  the  expendiny  of  it.  After  Pax  example,  we  multlo
4  live,thatwe  may  be  ableto  givea  good  account  of  the  ſpending
of  ourdayes.  T  hat  this  may  bee  done,  wee  mull  Icarne  zounmber
our  dryer  and,  toredcemetbe  ime.  7  orumber  our  aayer,istOcon  __
tne
