---
page: 391
pdf_page: 413
---
the  Epifileto  the  Galatians.
Chap.  5»
399
where  Chrit  ftood  in  our  roome,  and  barethe  burden  of  our  (ins,
and  made  an  expiation  of  them,  Inthis  reſpe&  we  are  faidto  bee
crucifed  with  bim,Ga/.2.19.T
ke  fecond  isin  vs,when  Chriſt  con-
ueies  the  vertue  of  bis  death  into  the  hearts  of  thern  that  areioined
5  tohim,forthe  cauſing  and  effeting  ofthe  death  of  tio,  Thethird
in  baptiſme,whereby  Chriſt  ſeales  the  two  former  cothem  that
Row.  G.G.
TINT  EST:
"Thecrucitying,which  isour  aQtion,is  nothing  elſebut  the  imi-
tation  of  Chrilt  crucited,on
this  manner.
He  was  firſt  attached  :  fo
q6  multwe  bring  our  ſclucesinto  thepreſenctof  God.  He  wasarraig-
ned  :  ſomuſt  we  ſet  ourſelves  at  the  barre  of  Gods  judgement.
He'
wasacculſed  :  ſo  mult  wee  indite  and  accuſe  our  {clues  of  our  owne
finnes  atthe  barreof  Gods  judgement.  He  was  condemned  \:and
ſo  muſt  we  indge  vurlelues,  that  wee  bee  not  iudged  of  the  Lord.
25  After  indgerent,wemul}  proceed  to  execution
of  the  figſh:  and
thatis,to
vie  meanes  to  crucifieit:  andtbey  arethree.  The  firſt  is,
by  faich  toapplytoove  ſelues  Chrilt  crucibed  :  and  that  is  to  be-
leeue,not  onely  that  Chrilt  was  crucified  for  vs,  butthat
wee  alſo
were  crucited  with  bim,  Where  this  faith  is,  Ginne  ſhall  oo  more
"  20  havedominion.T  be  ſecond  is,to  beat  down  the  fleſh  by  the  {word
oftheſpicit:  andtbatis  done  by  a  ſerious  application  otthecom-
mandements,and
the  threatnings  of  God,to  ourſeveral  affections
and  luſts.  Thethird  is,to  flie  the  occafioos  of  euery  linne,  and  to
cut  off  the  brit  begiavings
ot  ell.
The  vie.  This  doctrine  ſetues  to  condemne  the  drowlie
theircomman
11,
tion.  Forthey  vſe  tacheriſh  in  themſelues
naughtieatieRti
damnableluſts.  T  here
is  fome  one  (weet (inne  orother,  that  they
cannot  abidetocrucibe.  -
111:  They  alſoaretobee  blamed,  that  cannot  abideto
heare
be  noted,  and  reprooped.  T  hey  are
particular  (ipnesto
35  their  owne
martiocuns  vamortified  perſons.  Andthe  word  of  Godis  the
ſnord
of  the  ſpirit,that  ſerues  to  kill  and  deſtroy  the  fleſh.
I'V.  In  offlitionebe  content  and  quiet.
For  we  ought  to  cruch-
and  Juits  of  our  Aeſh  ;  and  becaule  we  faile  inthis
he  the  affeRioos
40  dutie,therefore  God  bimſelfe  takes  the  worke  in  hand:  and  hewill
crucife  our  corruption  by  his  cbaſtiſements.
of  this  duty  of  crucityiog  the  ficſh;there  are  three  yorees
Further,
