---
page: 392
pdf_page: 414
---
Chap.  5.
A  Commentarie  2/001
to  becoalidered.  1.  The  time  when  this  ation  muſt  begin,  name.
ly,  in  our  baptiſcme,
or  fGieſt  converſion,  Therefore  Pawllaith,  they
that  are  Chrifts,  bave  crucified,  ec.  1  1,Wbat  mult  be  crucified?
Anſ.
The  whole  fleſh,  with
inordioate  atfeRtion  and  luſt,
This  makes  againſt  them  that  fly  and  dete(t  ſome  fewe  (ines,  ;
andrunne  headloog  into  others.  111.What  is  crucifyiog?
Auf,  Init
aretwothiogs,the  ——_—  Ori  -
liane,  (whichisiq
in  ciuillmen,
killiog
iginall  corruptioo,inal
the
rs  mers  "ar
that  is  done,when  we  doc not  on-
movurne  for our  corruptions,  but  alſo  hate  and  deteit  them  in  oue  14
2.5.  1f  we  line  in  the  Spirit,  let  v5  alſo  walke
in  the  Spirit
In  theſewordsis  contained,the
laſt  reaſon  of  theruleof
good  i;
life  before  mentioned,  in  the  16.verſe.  For  the
whereof,  two  things  are  to be  coalidered,whatitis
to  live  inthe
Spirit  z  and  what  to  walke inthe  Spirit  z  Touching  the  firſt,
twofold  :  created,  or  vncreated.  Vacreated
life,  is  the  life
Created  is  that  which  pertaineth  to  che  creature.  And  this  iseithet  26  -
netaralh  oe  phe,  Nennnnty  ts  Oo
by  natyrall  cayſesand
means,as  by
rinkesc)
by,and
from  the
Spirit,
Ofthis  there  be  two
'The
15.44.  1t  riſeth
apaive
«ſp
cond
not  being  4
by  meanes,  but
immediately
by  the  eternall  ſuſtentation  of  the
Spirit,
The  firſt  of
egree
this  life,the  ſecond  after  this  lifezin,and  aſterthe
body  and  foule  ſhall  be  reunited,  And  ofthe  35
place  igto  be  vaderſtood.
Spirit,
is,  firſt  co  ſavour  the  things  of  the
Spirit,
Row.$:5,7;And  thatis;tominde,wiſh,hike,defire,andaffet
hertz  6r  i}  a  word,  to  ſobieRt  a  mans  ſelfe  ro'the  law  of  God,
in  altthe
powers  and  facolties  of  the  fovule.  For  the  things  reves-  40
led  in  the  Law,  are  the  things  of  the  Spirit,  which  Spirit  mult  at
Rn  oo
mn
aa
I_y""
right
