---
page: 393
pdf_page: 415
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatiens.
Chap.Fs.
491
hteouſvelle,withour  offenceeither  of  God  or  man,P/z1.143.10.
MF  ly,to  walke  not  (tragglingly,but  orderly  by  rule,
by  line,and
by  meaſure.  For  ſo  much  the
word{«lbeJimportetb,in  the  origi-
cue  ul  |
pall;asif  Pa»/  (hovid  have  ſaid,Letvs,(whilit  we  live  in  thisworld)
5  pot  onely  indeavourto  doe  ſome  one,  or  ſome  few  good  ations,
botin  the  courle  of  our  lives  and  callings,  order  our  felues  accor-
iog
to  the.rule  aodline  ofthe  word  of  God.
he  vie.  T
bis  text  in  thefr(t  place,  qutsoff  the  ſhiftes  and  ex-
cuſes
of  {undry  perſons  in  theſe  daies,  who  protetle  themſelues  ro
3  bethe  children  of  God,  and  yet  for  their  lives,  are  much  tobe  bla-
med,becauſe  they  teadetbem  not  according  tothe  Spirit,  but  ac-
cording  to  the  fleſh.  And  theſe  perſons,  whatſoever  they  ſay,  doe
indeed  and  in  truth,deceive  themſeclues,  and  are  quite  delhtute  of
Gods  Spirit.  Forit  they  lived  io  the  Spirit,they  would  alſo  walke  in
i5  mo  tis  not  an  idle  ſpirit  inany;  butie  willſhew  and  ma-
it  ſelfe,  ina  holy  and  orderly  converſation.  You  willfay
;1f
ſuchperſons  have  not  the  Spirit  of  God,  what  other  Spirit  have
they  ?  An.  If  their  lite»  be  naughe,  they  hauean  vncleane  Spirit
vgin
them:  aridthegod  of  this  world  hath  blioded  their
7  tv  cies,  and  makesthem  that  zbey  cannotiee  the  right  way  wherein
they  ſhould  walke,  1.Cor,4.4.
Againe,we  learne
from  hence,  a  true  and  pregnant  (ligne,  wher-
by  todiſcerne,  whether  any  man  hath  in  his  beart  the  Spirit  of
God  orno  ?  Thelifeof  a  man  will  diſcover
and  proclaime  to  all
13  theworld,  before  God,  men,  and  Angels,  what  bimſelfe
is,  If  a
manin  the  courſe
of  his  life  and  calling  be  godly  and  vertuous,
leading  his  life
ing
tothe  will  &  word  of  God,  in  an  honeſt
and  carefull  indeauour,
though
he  failein  ſome  particulars\:what  e-
ver  the  world  thinkes  of  him,  be is  the  mar  that  isindued  with  the
i  Spirirof  God,  =
Laſtly,this  teacbet!f,  what  is  the  office  of  all  Chriſtian  people,
namely,
rs  walks  i  the  ſpit,  that  is,  to  frame  and  orderthe  whole
courſe
and  tenour  of  their  lives,  —  the  line  and  ſquare
of
Gods  word  and  Spirit,  A  motiueto
which  dutie  may  bethat feare-
35  fall  threat  pronounced  vpon  thoſe  that  turne  alide,  and  walke  in
their  owne  crooked  wayes,P
#1.  425.5.
26  Let  ws  not  be  deſirous  of  vine  glorierouking  one  an-
*  other,  enuying  one  another.
The  ſcope.  From  this  26.  verſe;to
the  1  1.verſt  ofthe  chapter
following,  S,  Paw/  handles  the  fecond  Rule,  which  he  bad  pro-
