---
page: 416
pdf_page: 438
sortable_pagination_id: "416"
---
Chap  6,
14  Commentaris
on
ſame  religion  with  vs,may  bee
ved,  and  cenfured  :  yea  ons
Church  nidy  admogiſh-aoother.;
torchey  being  members
one  of
andtheyae  to  procurethe  good  one  obanotber,  as  Pav/  teacheth
by  the  Githilitude
of  rhe  hea  and  the  members  of  theſame  bodie,?,
Cor.12..T  berefore  all  that  areinthe  bolome  of  the  Church,  even  ;
the  mightie  —_—  __  Han  yg  =
earth,are  ſubieR  tore.
oofeyt  they  o
:  thus  Nathent
,reprooued  D  amd,
Ck  12,  and  Az  15  the  Prielt  heked  Fre  2.Cbrow,  16,18.
and  Pav/reproved  Peter
to  bis  facezGa//2.17;  Therfore  choſe  men;
yea,thofe  Magillrates,  or  Monarchs,  that  canuorenduretheleal}  1;
repreofe,ond  wil  not  yeeld  their  necksto  Chrilt  his  yoke,and  their
backs  totherodof  Ecclefiafticallconſure,a
ly  to  be  cenſured:
for  hetcin  they.contemnethe  ordiunanceot
God,  Letthemconſl-
der,that
they  arc  not  better  then.King  Dav«d;who  baving  linved,
Ten  I.  nes  er  Les  them  remember
hon  ;;
king  /224«b  was  firicken
with
leprolie  forrelilting
God  in  the  mi.
niftery,  And  beere  the  Popiſh
ſort  come  to  be  taxed,  whoexempt
their  cleargy  men(asthey.call  them)  from  reproofes,
and  Ecele(ia-
proceedingsjie  thruſtiog  ther  into  ſome  one
gicall
of
otherefdtheirexemplary  punihmenrihovtd  be  a  blemiſh  or  dips  1,
ragememTothei
and  proteſkon:  whereas  Pa»/  would  bave
the  Miniflereand
Elders,  yea  all  ſoperiours,  to  bereprooued  as  well
as  others;/0  it  be  done
in  order,and  with  ducreſpect  (as  after  |
will
ſhew.)  Thus  Par/biddeth  the  Coloſſians,that  they  ſhould  ſay  to  4v-
chipus,T  ak  beedto  thy  nuniſtery
that  rhou  baſtrecerntd  wn  the  Lordyhat  15
thouſulfilbu  Golgay:
'  36.07?
1  1.  Wee  are,  bound
to  reprooveallithat  are
in  the  Chorch,to
whom  we  oweTutieof
Tove  :  but  we  are
to  loue  our  ſuperioursas
much
if  not  mcre  then  others  therefore  we  are  bound  toreprove
thein
68  well  as  othess.  111.  Thereis  greater  reafon  wee  ſhovld  3®
reprovethemthenathers.  1.  Becauſe  they  being
in  higher  place,
ate "iv  greater  dariger  of  falling
theat  othirs,  and  therefore  have
more  necd
of  -admonitions  and  repreofes.  2,  Becauſe  th
many  that  will  fatter  them,  but  few  or  none  that  will,  or
darere-
oouethem.  -
15
|  It  with
be  aid,"  allare  not  to  bee  reprooved  which  live  inthe
Church  y;  for  ſorae  be  ſcorners,  who('as  Salowen  faith  )  mutt  not
bce  reprovued,  And  our  Saviour  Chrift  forbiddeth  vs;  ro  caf
fearler  before  ſwine,  Matth.7  5.  |  anſwer,  that  one!y  open  ſcornen,
contembers,perſecuters  of  the  word,are  to  be  _—_  ;  otherwiſe  ©
all  wickedmeo
are  to  bexcenfyred  and  rebuked,
For  firlt,  Chriſt
of  religion,  when”  he  (airh  that
{peaketh  of  .magite(t  conternners
MS
ney
