---
page: 417
pdf_page: 439
sortable_pagination_id: "417"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
'Chiap:6.
4r
are  lik  ſwine,  which  trample  precions  peartes  vader  their  frert  and
me  reeds.  Secandes  Ciel  beer  reere
all  to
Chriſt
being
here:
arth,dit
not  hinder  the  Phaciſies,  Sadducees,Publ  lies
Jon,
|  RE
ES  much  letſe  would-bhedebarre
therwot
this
ceofure  of  the  Church.  Thirdly,  the  'womars  of  Syropbt-
nia  (though  called  «  dog)  yereareth
of  thr  er
umme:  that  fall  frexw
the
childrens  t=ble,  Aﬀarth,  1  5.27,  Fourthly,  Pavi  did  often  admoni(:
re
all
eludinO  they  bee  oat
open  Gorurt  vrpoteaourrot  en
ww  Profane  men,  which  n
.nffend  nedſerndilize
Les  no  neon
75  bue  areto  deaccountedas  doysout
of  the  Church,  --
Tankwery  z.-Th  incmnoredeemedtiogonbicd)  CaG-
24
eee  calrbdwerk
bletoS,  Paul:  prattiſe,  who  did
inthians  bat
werecaroalL.and  did.
or  yet  {i
Cretraneſharpely,  or pr
for  their  notable
and  matt
e6  them  rharfall
by  yeok.  <=:
Ti  1.12.3.  ors  fo
x.
5  4narion;but  would  have  them  forgiuen,  not  onely  till  ſeven  times,
bortill  ſeventie  times  ſeven  rimesy  "wud  Pariipenkes  indefoately
inthis  place,  that  1
ut  fallorh-by  octufion  tato  ny
offence,  not  ſpecifying  how  oftan  we  ſhould  forgive.  4.  Wenwit
G&ftingoiſh  berwixe  the  Magiſtrates  fword  ;  and  the  keyes  of  the
30  Church  :  notorious  offendours  when  they  repent;are
tobe  recei-
oy  bent  ng
yer
thatthey
may,
vuyghr
10:  bepunithed
by  the  magi-
ſtrate:  ==
albeira  abort}  erialily  pu-
Tiſhed  for  his  offence.
$5.”
,FI.F  leairavies  tobe  reproned  ?
Men  aretobe
ed  for  euery  kuowne  (ione:  This  isma-
vifelt  from  the  end
of  reproofes,  which  i-  the  gaining  of  our  bro-
voy  be  periſh  not  in-his  (mne-  bur  every(anets  of  chignature
,tbarit  brinperh  death;be!np  nocrrepened  of:  thertore
ry  linheaman
is  to  bee  reprocued.  Secondly,
our  Saviour
nr  =.  reltraine  chisprecepe  to  private  iniuries,  becaule  in  that
we  arcto  follow  anvrher  role.  Roi?  nor  will,  Bleſſe,  and  cirſe
caſe,
nor.
Ee  2
