---
page: 418
pdf_page: 440
sortable_pagination_id: "418"
---
upon
|  dCommentarit'
Chap.6.
448
'not.  Doe  geod  tothem  that  bate  you,  ©  ©;
hitdly,'it  is  extended  to
euery  Gnney:  we  I  ep
———__
Chorch,ſianeth  alſo  again(  thee,  and  euery
particvlar  member
of
thaChurchiForevery  Chriſtiavoughtmore  te  beaffefted  for  the
fjanes  committedigaint  God,  or  the  body
of  theChurch;
then  5
Reta  areperſonally,and
ireatly  intended  or  doneagaiaſt
himſelfe  \:thercfare  Chriſt  ſpeakethb  not  onely  of  (inves,  asthey  are
private  wrongs,ipiuries,  Of  C
z  but  as  they  are  diſhonorable
A  +  ſcandalous
to  thr  Church,
pernitiou:
Vs.
Rabſhekdlegt  King,  19.  1\:a0d  Demd,  whole  eyes
out  rivers
of  waters;becaule
tnem  kept  not  Gods  law,  P/al.  4  19,  verle  146.
and  Zox,  who:  vexed  his  righteous  foule,  in  ſeeing  aod
the  abbomigatione
ofthe  dodomites,2.Per.  2.8.  For  to
25
mapa  rnd.
>  0m
ing
privie'to
it,  is  farre  from
can  the  pheaſe  be  ſbewed  inthat
Now  that  men  are  to  be  reprooued
for  knowne  {innes  commit-
ted
God
of  what  oature,quality,and
condition  ſoeuer  they  50
be,belidesrhe
former  reaſons,  it  is  manifelt  Lewiticns  1  9.  27;7bu
fralt  wet  haute  thy  brother  in  thine  beart  ,  but  thou  ſhalt  plainely  rebuke  him,
and  pale  not  ſirffer  ſunetorelivgen
him,  Therefore  a
man-is  to  bet
rebuked  for  every  ſinne.  The  ApotMe  whereſocuer  bee  ſpeaketh
of  reproofes,neucr  reſtruines  it  to-0ne  kinde,  but  extends  it  to  all4s
knowne  linnes.  1,Cer,s.  he  reprooves.
the  inceſtvous  perſon  for
his  incel},  and  excommunicateth  him.  being.  impenitepr,  Soin
this  place,  if  «  mar
be:  fallen  by  occaſion  mto  any  offevce,  be  laithoot,
this  or'  thas  offence,  Nene  into
any  off  \:nce,  whether
ib  like
or  doeArine,
by  cuillexample,orotberwiſe,again(t
the  firſt  or  ſe-#
cond  Table.  Yet  this  is
ſo  to  beevaderliood,
as  that  iniurits
and
wrengs  offred  vaare  not  to  be  excluded;  foreuen  for  themallo,are
