---
page: 419
pdf_page: 441
sortable_pagination_id: "419"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
415
Chap.6.
men  to  be  reprooved.  1.  1tis  the  purpole  of  our  Sauiour  Chriſt,
Manhew  18,  to  teach  this  very  point,  tor  having  taught,  Aſare.  18,
verſe  6,  that  yone  ſhould  offend  or  ſcandalize  his  brotherzip  the
10,  verle,  he  ſhewes  what  is  to  be  done,  if  avy  man  did  offend  his
5  brother,  by  injuring  or  wrooging  him:  to  wit,  that  hee  istore-
proove  him,  11.  Heemaketh  himtbart  ſuffered  the  wrong,awit-
neile,  not  an  accuſer,  when  hefaith,  If  hee  heare  thee  not  ,  take  yet
with  thee  ove  or  two,  that
by
the  monthof  twoor  three  witneſſes,  enery
word  may  be  confirmed,  Marth.  18,  16,  He  biddeth  bim  take  one  or
16  (wo,  that  ſo  it  may  bee  confirmed  by  the  reftimonie,  not  of  one  or
two,  but  of  twoor  three  :  therefore  the  particoffended  is  one  of  the
witneſſes.  111,  If  it  were  lawfull  to  reprooue  men  for  injuries
offered  vs  ,  what  courſe  ſhould  hee  take  that  is  ſecretly  wronged,
nene  being  priuictothe  wropg  but  himſclfe,and  the  partie
attco-
15diog?  Thus  men  would  be  imboldned  to  (inne,  ſeeing  they  could
by  no  meanes  be  controlled,  and  ſo  menmight  fraſtratethe  com-
mandement  of  Chriſt.  1  adde  further,  that  he  which  is  iviured,is
fitterto  reproue  him  that  offered  the  injury  then  any  other.  I.  Be-
cauſe  the  offence,  both  for  ſubſtance  and  circumltance,
is  better
26  knowne  vnto  him,  then  roany  other,  11.  Becauſe  the
fe
ioall  likelihood)  will  take  the  better  place,  when  as  the  offender
havecoalesot  fire  oped  vpon  his  head,  when  he  ſhalſee,that  _
the  partie  wronged,
isdelirous  of  his  good,  andready  to  requite
good
for  cuil,in
{ceking  his  amendment,  whereas  hee  ſought  his
25  hurt.  And  whereas  it  right  ſeeme;thatit  ſauoureth  of
reuenge,ta
reproue  thoſe  that  wrong  vs,  |  anſwer,  though  many  in  reprouing
tevenge  themſclues,  yet  the  one  may  bee  done  withouttbe  other;
and  the  right  vic  of  a  thing  isnot  to  be  negleted,  becauſe  of  the
abuſe  thereof.
30  ©  Obieft,  Authors  of  hereſies,  ſchiſmes,  diſſentions  areto  be  auoi-
ded  Rews,  15.17,theretore  notto  bereprooued,  An/.Generall  places
of  Scripture,  areto  bc  expounded,  according  to  particular  limi-
tation  ja  other  places  :  now  that  general  text,Rom,1  6.1  5  isreſtrai-
ned and  limited,7#.3,  10,  Anoidan  beretiks  after  once  or  twiſe  admo-
35  #:410n,
Obieftion,  Pan!  commands  the  Corinthians,  that  without  any
more  adoe;they  ſhould  proceede  forthwith  to  the  publike  cenſure
of  excommunication  againſt  theince{tuous  perſon:  and  as  it  may
ſeeme,without  any  former  reproofe,  z.  Cer.  5,  Belides,  hee  com-
©  maundsthat  wee  houtd  not  cat,  that  is,  familiarly  converſe  with
notorious
perſons  of  ſcandalous  life,  1.  Cor.  5  11,  and  that  wee
ſhould  withdraw  owr  [clues  from  enery  brother  that  walketh  mordmately,
Ee  3
2.Thef..
