---
page: 20
pdf_page: 42
---
A  Conmentarie  pon
Chap.1.
the  metlage  of  acreature.  Thus  Aron  and  the  tribeof  Lewiwas
called  by  Moſes  :  Elizeus,  by  Eliars  Philip  was  called  by  the  Angel
to  baptize  the  Eunuch,  Aer  8.25.  The  thirdis,by  ioflin,  Thus
Phaliga  Deaconpreachedin  Samaria,  A77.8.14.  Thus  the  men  of
Cy  prus  and  Cy  reve  preached  among  the  Gentiles,  andthehand  5
of  God  was  with  them,though  otherwiſe  they  were  but  privat  per-
ſons,  A#.11.19  20.  Ofthis  kind  was  the  calling  of  the  feſt  preach-
ers  of  the  Geſpel.  It  may  bee  obieRted:;that
they  did  not  confirme
their  czllings  and  doArine  by  miracles  ,  which  they  ſhould  have
done,if  their  calliogshad  beneextraordinary.  1  anſwer:  they  prea-  ;
ched  no  new  doQtrine,byt  the  old  &  ancient  doArine  of  thePro-
phetsand  Apoſtles,  which  they  had  beeretofore  confirmed
by  mi-
racles.  Now  old  duqrine  needsno  new  miracles,  butnew  dofArine
ſuch  as  are  the  Popes  decrees  and  decretals.  Againe,it  may  bee  al-
ledged,that  men  may  fallly  preted  extraordinary  calling.  anſwer,  ,
if  3.  rules  be  obſerued;they  cannot,  T  he  firſt  is,  that  extraordinary
never  takes-place,  but  when  there  isno  roome  for  ordinary,  The
ſecond,rbat  they  which  plead  a  ITY,  muſt  bee
tried  by  the  word,  both  for  doQtrine  &  hife
:  for  this  is  an  infallible
way  to  diſcouerfalſe  teachers,Aſar.7.22,Dew.14.1,5.Jobmauthori-  ,,
ty  is  ſaiqto  be  fro  heauen,becauſe  his  baptiſme,that  is,bis  doctrine
wasſo,Lsk.20.2,T  hethirdis,that  extraordinary  teachers  in  theſe
laſt  daies,  aſterthey  have  brought  men  to  receiue  the  Goſpel,are
to  be  ordained  as  otherordinary  miniſters  after  the  lawes  of  Gods
word,  For  theyare  not  extraordinary  inreſpe
oftheirdoArine,  ,;.  ,
which  isthe  doQrine  of  the  word,  norinreſpect  of  their
off  ceor
funRion,in  whichregard  they  arepaſtours  and  teacbers,6cnot  A-
poſtles  or  Evargeliſts  :  but  their  callings  are  extraordinary,  io  re-
ipeRof  the  common  abuſe  of  the  ofhce  of  teaching;  &  inreſpeRt
ofthe  comon  corruption  ofdoctrine,  T  bele  3.  rules  as  caveats  0b-  3%
ſeru2d,we  may  ealily  perceivewho  arecalled  extraordinarily,wbo
rot:&  they  arcallfully  verifiedinthe  hielt  preachers  of  the  Goſpel.
T  hirdly,it  is  @bieted,that  they  which  are  lawfully  called,  are
ordained  by  ther,whoſe  anceſtors  have  bene  ſucceſſively  ordai-
ned  by  the  Apoſtles.  1  anſwer:  Succeſſion  is  threefold,  Thefirſt  25:
15,9f  perſons  and  doArine  iointly  together  :  and  this  was  in  the  *
Primitive  Church.  T  heſecondis,of  perſons  alone,acd  this  may  be
among
infidels  and  heretikes.The  third  is,of  doQrine  alone.  And
thus  our  Miniſters  ſucceed  the  Apollles,
And  this
is  ſufficievt.  For
thisrale  mult  be  remembred,
that  the  power  of  the  Keies,that
js,  40+
of  order  and  juriſdiction.  is  tied  by  God,  and  apncxed  in  the  New
ielamentto  dodtrine.If  ia  Turkie,or  America,  or  «ls  where,  the-
Goſpel
70D
OC
——_———.
oo
hy  2
