---
page: 420
pdf_page: 442
sortable_pagination_id: "420"
---
A  Commentarie  pon
Chap.6.
420
2.7heſſ.3.6.  Auſwor.  Paul:  pradtileis  not  contrary  to  Chriſtspre-
cept.  ans  7
indeed  to  excommunicate  the  inceſtuous
pere
ſon,if  be  perliſted  in  his  ſinne,yet  marke  how;  in  the  neme,and  by  the
power  of  oxr  Lord  eſus  Clrift,  1.Cor.  5.4.  in  which  words  the  forme
of
ing  agaioft  bimis  limited,and  that  according  to  Chriſtz  ,
ialtitutioo,  Math.  18,  the  name  ard  power  of  Chrift  ,  Ognitying  the
word  and  inſtitation  of  Chrilt,  2,  Pa«/  doeth  plainely  expound
bimſc)fe  in  other  places  ,  what  his
iſe
was  in  that  behalfe,
as  2,  Corimb.13.1,2,  where  hee  {igpibeth,  that
bee  did  notexcom-
municate  vncleane  perſons,  fornicatours,  wantons(  mentioned  1
chap.  12.21.)  before  thethird  admonition;  making  his  third  com-
mi
vantothem,in  lead  of  three  admonitions  ,  ar  witnetles  4-
gaialt  them.
It  will  be  ſaid;that  Pax  threatneth,when  hee  commethhewill
not  ſpare  che  re#?,2.(or.13.2.  therefore  it  ſeemeth  hee  wasreſolued  1;
to  excommunicate  them  without  any  former  proceediog
again(t
them.  Anſwer.  When  fas!  (aith,  7
write  to  them  which  m_
..
to  all  ther:  that  if  I  come  againe,  |
will  not  pare,  By  all  others,  heewes-
neth  notſome  which  be  purpoſed  to  excommunicate  withoutter-
mer  admovition,(for  in  writing
this  EpiGle  to  them,  hee  admoni-4,.
ſheth  them  all  to  repent,  leſt
when  he  came
be  ſhould  vic  ſeveritie)
but  thoſe  which  lived  ſecurely  in  the  open  breach
af  thg  lawyto
whom  hethreatnec  tocome  with  a  rod,it  they  did  not
V.
Cor,4-21.  and  when  hee  ow
againe  admoniſhetb,threatningthat
ithecome  thethird  time,he  wil  not  ſpare,
Beſides  this,Pa«/ſhould  15.
be  vecanllant
and  valike  himſelfe,if  be  ſhould  admonih  vacleave
p<rions,  fornicatours,wantons,and
that  three times  bet,
munication  :  and  ſhould
at  the  firſt  excommunicate  certain
othen
without  any  precedent  admonition.
3.  The  word  there  vicd,  lignifieth
in  word,  as  it  is  40-
taken,Luke  17,  If  thy  brather  jinne  agamſ  thee,rebwhe  hun  :  therefore
the  reproofe
by  many  ,or  of
tioned,a,Cor.2:6.  may  lignifieas
well  the  graue,ſerious,
and  effeQuall  reproofe  ofthe  Church  ,  yi
which  the  inceſtuous  perſon
was  reclaimed  from
bis  finne  ,  ad
prevented
the  thunderbolt  of  excommuoication,
as  the  reall  ie  35:
ion  out  of  the  Church:
and  thaſe  words,veſe  20.5/you
an)
thing,  may  as  well  lignifie  receiving  into  fayour  and
familianitie
be
fore  excommunication  ,  vpon  his  repentance,  asreltitution  after
excommunication.
4.  Beit  granted,  hee  were  indeed  excommunicate(as  it  ismolt  4#:
probable  he  was)yet  hence  it  cannot  beipfcrred,that  they  did  pro-
cced  again
him  without  precedent  admonitien.
The  Ay”
