---
page: 421
pdf_page: 443
sortable_pagination_id: "421"
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians,
Chap.6.
421
flentin  this  point.  Therefore  the  reaſon  is  not  good;itis  not  recor-
it  was  not  practiſed,
5.  Though  the  Apoltlecommand  that  we  ſhould  have  nofami-.
liaritie  with  inordinate  livers,
2.7  be.  3.5.  but  that  wee  withdraw
$  our  (clues  from  themyyet  hee  addes  withall,  that  it  there  were  any
anonglt  them  that  would  noe  obey  his  ſayings,  they  ſhould  note
him  by  a  letter,verſe  14.  and  he  expreſſely  commandeth  that  they
admoniſh  the  inordinate,  1.Theſſ.5.1  4.  for  that  was  his
praiſe,
asit  may  appeare,2.7beſſ.;.  Thoſe  that  are  ſuch,  that  is,inordinate  li-
{0  yers,
wee  exhore  and  commannd  by  owr  Lord  leſs  Chrifh,  that  they  worke
web  quietneſſe
and  eat  their  owne  bread.
[IT.  Who  aretoreproone  ?
Itis  a  dutie  which  concerneth  all  men;our  Saviour  Chriltfaith,
If  thy  brother  finne  againſf  thee,  reproone  him.  :
and  the  commande-
15  ment  is  generall,  Zewir.  19.17,  Thex  ſoalt  not  hate  thy  brother
inthy
beartybut  ſhalt  rebuke  him  plainely  :  now  all  Chriſtians  are  brethren,
(as]  have  ſhewed,)  therefore  all  men  are  bound  toreproovetheir
brethren,as  occaſion  ſhall  ferue,  Secondly,all  Chriſtans  are  meme
bers
of  the  ſame  bodie  whereof  Chrilt  is  the  head,  therefore  they
»  zretohelpe  and  further
one  another,  as  members  of  the  naturall
body  do  :  and  thisis  done  by  admonition  andreprebenſion.  Third-
lythe  bond  ofcharitie  tieth  all  men  to  help  their  brethren,  in  what
they
can for  their  good,and  therefore  (if  need  be)to  reproue  them.
And  albeit  forne  may  ſeeme
to  beevnhit  or  vaworthy  reproouers
i  of  others,  being  tainted  withas  great,or  greater  (innes  themſelues,
and
io  cannot  caſt  out  motes  out  of  other  mens  eyes,  they  bauiog
deamesin  their  owne;  yet  wee  mult  know,  that  finne  freeth  none
trom  this  datic  :  Indeed  none  ought  to  reproove,  either  with
ſcandallto  others,  or  with  hart  and  hinderance  of  bim  that  is  re-
j  prooued;  yet  no  man  is  ex
from  this  dutie.  For  cuery  man
oughtto
be  cleare  and  blame
pecially
of  open  crimes  that  fo
bee
may  more  freely  and  fruitfully
reprooue  hisneighbour;  but
though  he be  noe,  yet  beremai
illboond
tothe  performance
of  this  dutie.  Our  Savioorfairtnor,that  hee  which
hath  a  brame
out  of
freed  fram  pulling  foorth  the  more
$i  diveye,  is  therefore
his
brothers  eye  ;  but,  firf?  cf?  ons  the  beame  ont  of  thine  owne  eye,
end  then  ſpat  thou  ſee  to  prll  out  the  mote  ont  of  thy  brather:  eye.  T  hey
therefore  are  {e
to  bee  cenſured,  nay  deepely  to  bee  condem-
ted,  who
fay  with  Cain,  Am  [  my  brothers  keeper  ?  as  thoogh  it  Geneſ.4.s.
hee  (finke  or  ſwim,  as  though
|acerned  then  not  a  whit  wh
every  man  were  to  looke  to  himſelfe  alone,  for  his  owne  behoofe
and  benefit,
and  not  vpon  the  things  of  his  brethren,  for  _  Philip.2-4;
Fe  4
