---
page: 401
pdf_page: 423
---
ga
Aa
he
Pe
36,
ANI  A  $ALRED
46
Val  a2
ab  hn,  43  nt}
pp
M.
Aa
Fe)  ee
Nets?
INES!
3  S
&  9
TO  THE  RIGHT  VVOR-
ſhipfull  Sir  Bass1naBvRNE
Cavpy,  Aneht.
©  yeare  agoe,  (  according  to  the  ancient  landable
cuſtone
of  the  Vnewerſitic  )  10  nterpret  S,  Pauls
Epiftler:  and  then  earneſtly  mireated  by  M.
Perkins  bu  Execcutonr,
and  other  his  friend's,
GC  (which  badſome  intereſt  in  me  )  to  ſupply  that
which  was  defeftine  m  bis  Commentary  vpn
SA,
the  Galatians  :  enercome  at  the  laſt  by  their  im-
yortanitie  ,  |  udertooks  the  bu
,  making
trial
aculty
is
this  ſhore  Chapter,  which  [  Fang  gn  4  to  Bc  we
fred:  Tet  not  daring  topubbſh  it  to  the  wiew  of  the  world,  withont  prem-
_—_—_  in  way  of  excuſe  for  my
e.  Fir  ef  Hirtius,or
(  4s
1  thinks)  Os  bering  importnned  by  bis  friend,  to  continue
the  prof  lib.s  Je
Commentaries
Crzlarleft  vnfim/bed,
wot  preſume  to  make  «  bello  Gall,
Spplie  ,
without  making  firft  an  Apolegie
for  bimſelfe,  for  attempting  to
lake  w  band  /o  great  tarke,  ſermung  therem  tocompare  with  him,  who  was
ncenpereble:  [uſt  caſe
have  1  to  excuſe  my  ſeife  for  this  my  bold  attempt,
i  vadertaking
to  e9udl/  him,  who  tn  the  1nd  g-ment  of  all,  (  ſane  ſuch  as  e-
fleeme
of  Wruters
by  tale  and  not  by  touch)  fo  Gb  anrill  conciſe,  ex-
wad
a,  methodicall,  that  (  «  it  is  ſaidof  Cz{ar  )  hee  bath  diſcouraged  $00  ome
wile  men  from  writing.  But  ſering
]  doe  net  i  the  varmecoxfidence
of  40  Qccerrvit.
Wine  owne  /ufſiciencie,or  exalineſſe  of
the  worke,procl  'ime  4  chalenge  to  aff  Cic.ad  Bur,
men!  conjures  $  nor  yet  take  pon  me  (as  *  ſome  baue  done  in  other  writers  )  m—  Czl.
foto  carry  tbe  Amt  hour  along  that  the  Reader  ſhall  not  perceine  but  that  be  br  AA  Fu
i  fill  rcading  bum,  nor  know  where  he  endeth,or  where  1  beginne  (for  that  11,  chionin
beewg  impoſſible  to  attame,  were  folly  toattempt  :  )  but  onely  to  finiſh  that  his  Ellayes,
which  otherwſe  ſhould  hawe  brewe  mperfc(t,  ro  atiifie  the  requeſt  of  my
friends  ,and  to  belp  forward  the  Lords  buildrng  thengh  not  as  a  maſtey  buil-
der  with  bewen  ({anes,or  poliſhed  Saphirs  :  yet  a4  a  [erner  and  vuderlabou-
rer,as  it
were  with  «  handfall
of
rubbiſh.  1]  hope  1  ſhall  obraine  (at  leaft)
ths  fawourable  conflrutbon,to  bee  thengbt  as  farre  from  vemue  herein,  as
wy  conſcience  doth  witne(ſſe  with  me,  I
did  it  in  ſimplicuie,  and  without  af-
Dd  z
fecfation
