---
page: 405
pdf_page: 427
---
CHAP.  VI.
1  Brethren,  if  a  man  be  fallen  by  occaſion  into  any  fault,  yee
which  are  ſpiritual,  reſtore  ſuch  a  one  with  the  ſdirit  of  meckenes,
conſidering  thy  ſelfe,  leſt  thou  alſs  be  tempted.
10
HE  Apoſtle  having  foifhed  the  firſt  part  of
the  Infiraftvn,  touching  the  faith  of  the  Ga-
latians  in  the  1  z.  verſe  ot  the  5.  Chapter.  ln
the  13.  verſe  hee  comes  to  the  ſecond  part,
touching  good  life,  which  continuesto  the
18,  verſeotthe  6.  Chap.in  which  he  firſt  pro-
|  pounds  the  ſurnme
of  bis  doarine,  verſe  13.
Secondly,  hee  makes
particular  declaration
therof.  [n  the  ſure  of  his  doQrine,firſt;be  ſets  dawnethe  ground
10  of  all  good  dutics,which  is,  chew  callng  to  Chriſtian  thertie.Secoud-
ly,two  rules  of  good  life.  T  he  firlt;that  we  myſt  ner  /c  our  /tbertie  a5
au&xcefiontothe  fleſh;  which  is  illuſtrated  and  handled  in  particular,
from  the  15,verſeto  the  26.  Theſecond,  that  wee  mui?  ſerwr  one  anc-
Gt  which  is  m—_—  __  the  25.  tothe  1  1.  verſe  of  =
is
In  handling  whereof,  he  firlt  remooues
the  impediments  ©
love,as  vaine-glory,cnuy,Gcc.verſe  26.  Secondly  he  Caſcriben  the
manner,how  itis  to  bee  obſerued,  and  practiſed  by  fundry  ſpeciall
rules;  the  firſl  wherof  is  contained  inthis  firſt  verſe:  where  we  may  |
oblcrue
theſe  two  generallpoints.  Firlt,
the  dutie  preſcribed.  'Se-  |
j6  condly,the  reaſons  tovrge
the  performance  thereof.  The  dutie  is,
thereſtoringof  our  brethren  :  where  wee  are  to  conſider  foure
things.  Firſt;the  dutie  it  ſelfe,reſtore,  Secondly,  rhe  perſons  whaare.
to  be  reſtored;
chey  that  EET,  any  offence.  1  hirdlygthe  per-  _
ſonsthat  mult  reifore,cboſe  that  are  þrrienall,  Fourthly,the  manner
35  how  gwrhe  /
rſt,  theduticis  ſet  donne  in  the  word,refore,  which  in  #7  =
Forthe  bet,
the  originall  ſignifies,  toſet  a  ioynt,or  bone  that  is  broken  ;ſoas  it
may  become  as  (tropg  and  ſound,  as  euer  it  was:  ſothe  word  is  v-
ſed;arrh,  21.16,
———————
