---
page: 429
pdf_page: 451
sortable_pagination_id: "429"
---
the  Epiſtle  ts  the  Galatians,
Chap.6.
of  finnes.  For  if  thou  bail  otfgnded,  or  if  r5y  brotber  bath  emgbt  againſt
theeggor  thy  way,and  ba  rac  oncited  19  thy  braver,  Math.5.2  3,24,  It  he
have  treſpailed  againit  thec,or  ibou  v.ft  owg
bt  ag  aruſt  bun.goe  and  tell
him
bis  fant  berweene
him  andihes  alone,  Ataih  1yg.  15,  And  albert
g  Salomon  lay,That  open  rebukg  u  better  then  ſecrgt  loweyÞ  row,2  7.  5yer  it
makes  nothing  agaio(t  this  rule  :  for  hee  vaderitandeth  not  4harp
which  is  vttered  betarg  witnelics,  but  that  private  re-
which  is  given  to  his  face,  8nd  oot  behipd  his  backe,  be-
twixt  them  twoalone,  But  apen  lynnes  are  reprovucd  openly.  x,
pi”  5.20.  Thew  that  ſcne,  rebwhy  openty,  that  the  reit  al/e  way  feure,
[+
1  0p:  mow  rightly  be  canceined  ;  for  it  1s  not  a
generall  comman
t  given-c9all,  (45  ſume  baue  thought,  10
alleadgiog  it  to  prooue  that  they  may  lawtully  reprooue  open
ſnearers,  and  offenders,and  that  opealy  :  )but  it  is  alpeciall  com-
15  mandement  giuen  to  the  Pallours,or  goyernury  ot  the  Church,
that they  (houid  reproque  tholeclders,and
lo  conlequently  all  luch
us  were  conuidted  of  apy  crime,  by  witactles,  and  that  betare  all
men,that  is,  before
the  whole  Church,  and  not  befvure  all  men,  in
eery  place  and  atlembly,  where  they  offend,  For  we  baue  no
16  #araotin  Scripture
{o  to  doe,  Secondly,  this  open  dilgracefull
rebuking  of  men  will  rather  bardev  them  un  thar  (innces,  then
any  way  reclaime  them  from  linne.  eLeguitmne  faith  well,  Pre  nr  wi
poudere  encipret  defendere  peccntum  ſmut,  Of  quem  vs  correttirent,,  16,
fac  privrencs..  T  birdly,  they  might
as  well  lay,  a  mavis  to  be  re-
15  prooued  for  euery  linne,  and  that  openly  before
all  meo,  as  for
open  [innes,  becauſe  Pax!  laith  not,  7  bem  that  [inne  openly,  rebuke
bifeve  allmen,  but  chew  rhat  finne,  rebwhg  openly.  Fourthly,  the
wordes  depend  vpon  the  former  verſe,  where  it  1s  (aid,  Receive  nor
acnſation  againft
an  Elder,  vuder  two  or  three  wincſſes  :  and  then
16  Kfollowes,  7  hoſe  that  ſinne,  rebwhe  open/y\:thatis,  thoſe  elders  that
finve,and  have  been  brit  privatly  admenithed,  and  atter  that  be»
fore  witne(les,  if  they  be  accuſed  by  twour  three  witnelics  z  then
reprooue  them  openly  before  all  men  ;  that  is,  betore  the  whole
5  X.  Wemult  carefully  obſerve  the  order  ſet  downe
by  our  Saui-
our  Chriſt  Auth.  18.  15.  tirtt,  we  mol  crie,whether
by  private  :
feptoofe  our  brother  will  be  reclaimedzor  potyat  he  be,  wee  mult
proceed
no  further,  for  then  we  bauc  attained  the  maine  end
of
;  Serpuockes,  If  bee  bear
e  thee,  rhow bait  EE  29h  2
þwemultrake  oneor  two,  which
wit
the  tact,  and.
Fbadry  cauſce  ;  the  fie(t  is  gion  by  Saint  Hwiren,vponthe
pace,  That  they  may  witaetic  that  to  be  a  liguey  tor  whach.  hee
