---
page: 21
pdf_page: 43
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.r,
Jl
Goſpell  ſhould  be  receiuedof  menyby  the  counſel]  and  perfwalion
of  private  perſons,  they  ſhall'not  neede  to  ſcndinto  Europefor
conſecrated  Miniſters,but  they  haue  power  tochooſe  their  owne
Miniſters  from  within  themſelues  ;  becauſe  where  God  gives  the
5s  word,be  giues  the  power  al(o,
Tovchiog  the  Succeſloursof
the  firſt  Preacbers;.  their:  callin
wasSaltogether  ordinary,and  they  were  ordained  oftheir
ſours.  [tis  obieRted,that  their  ca)livg+are  corrupt;  ]  anſwer  thus:
All  aRions  Eccleliallicall,that  tende  to  binding
or  Jooling,apper»
xo  kaine  properly  to  the  perſonot  Chriit,  and  men  are  but  Minilters,
and  in(truments  thereof.
And  thereforeto
call  men  tothe  minifte-
ry  and  diſpenſation  of  the  Golpell,belopgsto  Ghritt,,  wbo  alone
giveth  the  power,the  will;the  deede.  And\:the  Church  candoe  no
more  but  teltifie,  publiſli,and  declare  wham  God'calleth,  by  Fxa-
1  5  mination  of  partics  for  life  and  doArine,by  Election,
and  by  ord
vation.
T  his  is  for  ſubſtance  all  that  the  Gburch  can doe  :  andall
this  is  allowed,  and  preſcribed  by  the  lawes
of  this  Church,  ,
and
land.  And  therefore  our  callingy  for:  their  ſubltance-are>divine,
whatſoeuer  defeats  there  be  otherwiſe.  |
>.
20
This  allurancethat  our  callings  are  of  God,  is  of  great  vie.  It
cauſeth  the  Miniſter  to  make  a  conſcience  of  his  duty  4
'it  is  bis
comfort  introuble,//a.49:2.  2.Cor.2.15.Andto  the  bearers  it  is  a
meanes  of  great  reyerence,and  obedience.
25  ,  12  For  neither  receiued  1#t  of  man,  nentherwas  taught  it,
but  by  the  reuelation  of  Ieſus  Chriſt.
T  he  meaning  is  this.  Pa»,  bere  {aitb,he  receined  not  the  Goſpel  of
214»:  becauſe  he  received  not  the  othcerto  teach  and  preach  the
Goſpel  trom  avy  meere  man,  For  here  he  ſpeakes  abhimlclfe'  ashe
30  was  an  Apoltic:  andthen  an  Apolile  properly  is  {aid  toreceivethe
Goſpell,wlicn  he  receives  not  onely  to  know  and  belecuc  it,  but
alſo  to  preach  it,  Aud  he  addes  furtber,:  that  be  was  not  taught  it,
that  istbat-be  learned  the  Golpelnat  bytheteaching  of  any  man;
as  formerly  he  learved-the  law  at  the  feete
of  Gamuhel,  '  The  la(Þ
RAT
ag”
ay
<A
WS
ls
1.
35  word:[bwt  by  the  revel  atie?  of  leſns  GlriſtJearry  this-fenſe;  but  1  lear-
ned  it  and  recciued  it  of  Chriſt  who  taught  me  by  revelation,  Fur--
ther,  Keuglation  is  taof0ld,ntordifiery,the  other  extraordinary.
Ordinaty.is,when  Chriſt  teachethmen  by  the  word  preached,and
by  his  ſpirit,  18  this  ſenle  theholy  Ghvit  is  called  be  ira  of  re
49  ulation,  Eph,1  .17.Extraordinary  is,withthe  word\:preached;
and
that  foure  wajes,  Fielt
by  voice!  Thos  God  taught  eAdams  and
the,  Patriarkes.  The  ſecond;:  by-drcames,  when\:things  revealcd  *
he.
At
were
