---
page: 408
pdf_page: 430
---
Chap.6.
A  Commentarie
pon
nen,  Mat.10.33.  Sooners  a  rorall,and  final!  denial.)  Th
us-|dolater,
ſorcerer,  andgiven  tow
find
Mn
wa
here  mere
wnftedſanfied,entbieed.c  ,  Corc6  9.11,  Temay
ſaide,
bay
ble,  that.  mga  daiohraraty  bp.
Jtovery  and  ts
PIETY
Woo  1
ff  IT,  |  op
eight
——_———  Apoltafie.  And  that  text,  Heby,  10,
after  that  we  hane  receined  the
err  we  =  ae  and  collation  of  it  with  others,  15
er
ag  me
euit,  Againe,  if  all  yaae  «
mer
amply
wexpabl  cucry
were
ry
odiloghy  me  the  word
\,  bgoibe  willinghe,  a8  4-
—  it,  —_—  2.yet  ſometime  it  (1gnifiet
waicieaſl,asitis
vicd  by  the  Seuentie,t
xod.21.13-  14.
delxlayay
be  reſtored,not  duapmuanc,ot
T  hey  are  vied  i
one  forthe  other,as  might  be  ſhened,
ifit  were  needfull.But  it  is  a  confe(ſed  crutbauoucned  by  _—_
and  others,  »  OE  TP  rp  rey
—  manbe  overtaken,  reſtore
.l  gather,  t
"5
.beſtowed  vpon  vs,ought
to  be  vicd
WA
Aras  967.
gr:
bog  rar  i
RC  Apokle  faith  of  him-
»  A  6.1.  1-4.
Therbirdebingto  be  conlideredis,the  perſons
that  are  to 1+  7
ſtore their  brethren,
laid  downe  in  thele  words,zee
2b.ut  are  ſpirituall
Spritzall  menare  oppoled  tocernall,  as  1.  Cor.  3.1.1  could  wn
ſpeake  016 you
bretbren,as
veto  ſpurituall  men,  but  as  vnto  carnall:
and
fonecwall  men.  1.Cor,z.14.15.  The  natarall
man  percrineth
not  the
things
of  the  Spirit  of
Ged  zbut  be  that  is  ſpir  1tu.1l  hſcerneatb
all  things,  35
Now  carnall  and  naturall  men,  arcof  two  forts:
either
are  ſuch
5  deltitute
of  grace
nes,  beeiog
in
corropt)  —_—_—
Rom,  8.5.  _
the  8.
As  Tovmteſihconmlabou
or  ſuch  as  are
CEpANerath  bare  weak,as  bei
t  babes
in  Chriſt
the  fleſh  being  tar
ar  (|  geriathem,chenche  pirit:ſuch  were  molt
llrong
