---
page: 411
pdf_page: 433
---
'  the
Epiſiletsrhe-Gals
Epi
laws,
*Chapis.
rr
Fourth
bder  the
comforeableafferts;  andthe  good  river
'  comes
A  toft
ardantd
an  fwergwirth  away  wrarh,
Prow.15.1,  Mocke;and  gentle  belianionr,  braperb  coules  of  fire  pwn
our  enemies
heud  Roms  2  20.”  A  fofutnngir  iwedkerrhe  bonds
yProw/1'5,
5  15.  Seetheexamplevt  Gidcmappraling  the  Milianites,  Ing.  B,  r,
&e.  and  Abrg  ut  pacifying  DamdgniS.us
26,
ta  £953.  46+
Fiftly,  nthour  mecknelſe,  wecannorſavingly  heare
the  word,
i”  own
either  read,  or
James  1.24.
yn  of
tor
it  is  further  Gid,wee  mul  reftoreis  the  ſpivitaf  mreckes  >.  The  ads
———_
qo  word/piriris  adtied,  becauleitprogedstrotn  che  ſpiricof  od,who  ()
Ocumen
i  both  the  w  orkerand  contriverthertbf/  as  on  the.  cobtrarie,  the  -
foes
of  [eatonfie,Numb.5.24  the  ſpirnt  of  errvur;1.10b,4.6,  the  ſpivit  of  *
_  13.  sf  eur  9.  14.the  ſpritf  ſw
ber,  [{a.29..  14  are  fotearmed,  becaule
ey  proceed
from  a  wick-
plhiaSes  either  $00»
proractons,  (hag  w—_
een  ot  trencemclewar  thu  the  bay
Gbol
is
but  of  all
ity
EPINS  Braces  cond  -
vertyes  arg
itiatbe  lame  ſpi
|  —  12,
2c  vertucs  of  the  ticathen:2
vſe4,  and  beref
1;  linoes.
Thirdly,  .  att  ftegv
whom  they
_  this  ſhewes,
tov
NCTQULI
«Lal
Kot  of  C  d
is
£  EL  ©  EIS
W115  p  pir  4  Theſ.5.19.i8  toboobeyedif  menu  etineche  grace
»Thorwuch  of
thedutic.  be  maſons  ie
Apolite,  to
nts  follow,to  beconlidertd
aretwo.  The
@  |  «ris  inpned  iwthe-  word  Brethren  rene  ot  great  forceto
{m—_  vsto  vic  SES  and  gentleneiſe.  {bra
in  a»
cauldvſe  no  (lrorger.  argument  to  pacibe.Lo9gthen  thi  Lee
there
