---
page: 435
pdf_page: 457
sortable_pagination_id: "435"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.6.
433
with  one  another,  Lathe  with  his  ſoftnelſe,  1Mclmthon  with  his
baſtinetle;  he  with  bis  boldnetle,  he  with  his  timorouſneſſe  :  Me-
lanithon  did  wel  temper  the  heat  and  zeale  of  Luther  with  his  mild-
neſle,  beeing
as  oyleto  bis  vinegerz  and  Luther  ontheother  (idey
s  did  warme  hiscoldnetle,  beiog  asa  fireto  his  frozennetſe,  Thus
the  Apoſtle  commaundeth,
that  wee  ſpwld  beare  with  the  infirmities
of  thoſe  that  are  weaks,  and  not  ſutfciently  catechized  in  the  do-
Arie  of  our  ſpiritusll  libertie  purchaſed  votovs  by  Chriſt,and  nee
ts  pleaſe  our  ſelxesto0  much,  but  rather  to  pleaſe  our  neighbour  in  that
Jo  which  i  good  to  edification,  Row,  15,ver.1,2;  For  among(t  otherpro-
pertiesof
louereckped  vp  by  S.Parl,r.Cor.1  3,  thisisnot  theleaſt,
that  ir
ſ»ſfereth
all  things,verle  7.tbat  is,all  ſuch  things  as  may  bee
borne  and  ſuffered  with  good  conſcience,  for  the  good  of  our  bro-
ther,  Forlookeas  a  lover  doth  ſuffer  all  things  in  regardof  hislouc,
is  in  three
ects.  Emnft;invoderevipe
ar
YC
Oat
im  be  for  _
her  good,  as  Herewles  did  for
the
love
of  Omphale,
Secondly,in
bearing  petient]  all  hard  meaſure  thatis  offercd  him  for  her  ſake,
as  /  $Jidfor  theloue  of  Racbel.  T  hirdly,  ininduring  anything
that
is  impoſed
vpon  him,  and  putting  vp  what  wrong  locuer  is
20  donevnto  him  by  her,  as  Samp/on
did  tor  the  loue  of  Dahklib,  So
Chriſtian
charity  cavleth
vs  to
fuffer
allthiogs.  Firllprofrcrribus,
toindure  any  labour,colt,or  traucll,for  their  go0d.Secondly,prep-
ter  fratres,to  beareall  afflictions  for  theirſakes,  as  Pasl  Faith  he  did
for the  Church.  2.7:.2.10,  T  hirdly,
fratribx;to  beare  wrongs,
25  and put  vp  iniurics  at  their  hands,  as  he  did,  being  (hamefully
en-
treated  at  Philippi,  (tone
ed,&c.  T  hismult  be  coniidered
of  vsall,but
ſpecially  of  ſuch
as  will  give  a  man  as  goodas  hebring»
eth,who  =  word  and  a  blow:  a  lte,and  a  ſtab  \:a  word,and  a
writ:  ſuch  as  cannot  bearecoales,  (as  they  lay)  nor  brookeany  lir-
3o  tle  wrong,  nor  indure  any
ailtic  in  their
brethren.  T
beſe
meal  remember
,  that  is  bearing  coules  that  is,in  ſuffering  and
orbearing)  they  beape  vp  coales  of  fire  vpon  thew  beats,  (as  Paul  tyea-
keth,Rom.  12.20.)  as  alſo  that  God  doeth  beare  with  them  in
grea-
ter  matters,  even  when  they  wound  him  with  their  oathes,  Lei,
35  2411.  andgiuchim  thelie  through  vabelcete,  1./oba  5.10,  as  bee  inmoinrr.
|  barethe  Se  of  the  1{raclites  ia  the  wilderactle.  That  Chriſt,  *  *3-%
whole  example  wee  areto  follow  ,  bath  borne  our  infirmities,  E(ay
93.  and  deeth  eaſe  then}  that  traucll,  and  are  beanie  laden,  Matthew
11.28.  and  therefore  wee  treading  in  bis  (teppes,,»iforbeare  one
49  4anetherand  for  giue  one  another,  if  any  man  hane  4  ___  againſt  ano-
ther,cnen  as  Chriſt  forgane  v1,Coloſſ.3.13.  Thus,jit  when  weeecany-
ſinge  in  our  brother  ,  wee  1eclaime  him  from  it  by  reprootes,
f  3
exhor-
