---
page: 436
pdf_page: 458
sortable_pagination_id: "436"
---
7/p0u
A  Commentarie
*0  Chap.6.
exhortations,admonitions,we  are  Gods  joſtruments,ta/cme  «
from  deatb,an1o
of  ſinnes,euen  before  God.  [am.
multitude
doe  c\:uer  a
5  20.  And  if,  when  we  perceivecommon  railtiesio  ove
_beetheeo  ,
we  ſhallnot  ſtand  too  much  vpon  our  right,  but  ſhall  yeeld  vato
them  in  bearing  forbearing,andforgiuing,wefbal
cover  ammiricads
of  ſine;  before  men.  57>  mM  —
nETh
Thos  much  touchingthe  rule,  Now  |  proceede  tothereaſon,
wherebythe  Apoltlevrgeth  the  praftiſe  ofthis  precept,  in  theſe
words,  And/o  fu/filltbe
law  of  (briſt.  T  he  reaton.  Nandeth  thus,
T  hat  which  is  the  fulfilling  of  the  law  of  Chriſt,  muſt  7
19
of  vs:  but  the  bearing  ofoneanothers  burden,  is  the  fal
ling  of
the  law  of  Chrilt  :  therefore  weooght  to  beare  one  anothers
bur-
dens.  For  the  clearing
of  this  Text,  ſundry  things
are  to  be  con-
lidered.
I.  It  may  be  demanded,
what  the  Apoſtle  vaderſtandeth  by  15
the  law  of  Chriſt!  Anſwer.  Nothing
els  but  the  coctrinc,  pregepe,
orcommandement  of  Chriſt,enioyniog
the  love  of  our
Job.13.34.35.  Anew  commandement  gine  Toms  you,  that  ye  Toue  one
another  ,  as  [  bane  loned  you,  &c.
Andit  is  all  one,  as  if  he  had
ſaide,  Beare  ye  one  anothers  burdens,  and  fo  fulfill  the  commende-  19
ment  of  Chriſt,  who  bath  after  a
ſpeciall  manner  commanded  the
loue  of  your  brethrer,
Nowthe  Apolltle  ratber  vſeth  the  word
Law,  then  Commandement,  becauſc  he  would  makea  clearer  4»
titheſi;  be\:w  xt  the  Law  of  Chrift,&  the  Law  of
Moſerilo  vebement-
ly  vrged  by  the  falſe  Apoltles  ;  asif  he  ſhould  have  ſaid,  You  Gals  13
tians  are  taught  to  obſerue  the  Law
of  Moſer  ,circumcilion,daies,
and  times,  moneths,  and  yearcs,  and
ſo  yedoe  indeede.  Well,
if  ye  will  needs
be  obſerving
of  Lawes,  hereis  a  Law  for  you  to
obſerue,  beare  with  thefrailties  one  of  another,&  fo  you  ſhal  fulhll
the  moll  excellent  law  that  cuer  was,  the  lawof  Chriſt,  which  is  16
neceſſary  to  be  kept,wheras  the  keeping  of  the  Ceremoniall  law  is
but  in  vaiee.\
1  .  2»\:ftion,  \Vhy  doth  Pax  call  the  loue  of  our  brethren,  the
Law  of  Chri(t,  rather  then  thelaw  of  nature,  or  the  Law
of  God,
or  the  Law  of  1ſofes?  ſeeing  it  was  written  in  tbe  mindeofman  in  35
the  creation,was  given  by
God  himſelfe  iv  Mount  Sinai,was  writ-
t-n  by  Aeſes,  the  reliques  whereof  are  yet  remaining  in  themind
of  man?  Anſwer,  It  is  ſocalled,  becauſe  it  is  a  new  commande-
rent  given  by  Chrilt  himſelfe,  aftera  ſpeciall  manner,  But  it  is
hereupon  further  demanded,  why  this  commandement  of  lo-  4*
ving  our  brethren,  thould  be  called  anew  commandement  ?  To
which  ſome  make  anſwer,  that  it  is  ſo  called,only  becauſeit  ſhews
a  DW
