---
page: 437
pdf_page: 459
sortable_pagination_id: "437"
---
the  Epiſtle  ts  the  Galatians.
Chap.6.
43:
anew  manner
of  louingour  brethren,  after  the  example  of  Chriſt,
«  be  bath  toxed'D;.Now  this  maner
of  loving  our  brethren(as  Chry-
ſoſtowe  expounds  it)isthis  that  as  Chriſt  loyed
vsfreely,
not  moo-
ved  by  any
amiablethinginvs,  nor  forany  profite  that  ſhould  re.
5  dound  voto  bimſelfe  therby:{q  we  ſhould  freely  love  one  another,
not  for  any  benefit  receivedworexpetted  By
tas  CyriloteAlexand.
vpo,  /obn,
nds  it,it  ſtands  in  this;thatas  Chrilt  loued  vs  more
then  himſelte,ſo  we  ſhould  love  our  bretbren  morethen  our  (clues.
But  this  cannot  betbe  meaning.  ForS.  7b»  in  his  1.  Epilt.2,  and
40  Epilt.z.repeating  this  new  commandement,  faith  onely,  thi:\:s  4
new  commandement
that  ye  lone  one  mother  and  never  ads,  as  (briſt  1o-
ed  v:\:the  which  be  (hould  bave  done;  iftheſe  words[  as  [hawe  [or  ed
you]  bean  eſſentiallpart
of  the  new  commandement,  which  be
vsto
15
Belſides,our  Saviourhimſelfe  faith,alittle  after,  By  this  hal  xl  men
knowe  that  ye  are
my  Diſcipleryf  ye
lows  #ne  another,notadding,as  [  b.ine
eljenthercorethe  new  commandement  is  laid  downe  in  theſe
Lone  one  another,  not  reſpeRing  thoſe  that  follow,  asa  mo-
dification
or  limitation,  «-  /  have  loned  you.  Belides,this  expolition
0  takes  it  for  granted,that  the  moral  law,Lowe  thy  neighbour
as  thy  ſelfe,
isa  certaine  rule,by  which  weare  to  ſquare  our  loue;that  is;that  we
moſt
begin  at  our  (clues,  and  looke  how  much  we
loue  our
ſelves,  fo  much  weought
to  loue  our  neighbour,and  no  more,  and
that  therefore  Chrilt  ſhould  give  a  new  commandement  of  greater
ts  perfeion,  then  that  in  the  law;to  wit,  that  we  loue  one  another
as  he  loved  vs,that  is,  more  then  ourſelues.  But  thisis  a  flat  mi-
of  the  Scripture  :  forthe  commandement,  Lowe  thy  neigh-
bear
as  thy  ſelfe,  is  no  exatrule  whereby  we  areto  try  and  examine
our  love,  (asthe  Popiſh  doors,and  ſome  others  teach,)For  then
340  Pasl  and  divers  of  the  Saints  of  God,  ſhould  have  done  workes  of
tion,more  then  the  law  requires,in  loving  their  neigh-
bours  more  then  them(ſelues,  Row.g.1.Andif  ic  were  a  rale,it  were
but  a  leaden  and  falſe  rule  :  for  we  are  in  ſome  caſcs  bound  toloue
our  neighbour,  more  then  our  ſelues,  eſpecially
if  he  beagreater
35  inſtroment  of  Gods  glorie,
in  procuring
the  good  of  the  Church
or  Common  wealth  ,  astoloue  our  =”  10
ſcJues,  and  preferre  his  ſafety  and  life  before  our  owne,  asthe  Hra-
®  &c  ial
wr,
i  we.
elites.  did  Dawias  :  Thou  art  worth  tenne  thou/and  of  vi,  2.5499,  1  8.  3-  Theophylat.
that  Sic  Hugo  de
note  of  ſmilitude,  and  not  of  equality,(ignifyio
for  dr,  is  a
ing  5-Vidtor  Ii,
©  2sweloue  our  (clycs  heartily,and  carneſfiy,and  inw
uzſt.in  E-
all  gogd  to  our  ſelues:  with  thelike  ſincerity  of  affeio
iſt,ad  Rom,
pear  trees  So
CRtRaDuG  ed
nothing  tothe  lawe,  q  208,
.  -  DS
Ft
ia
