---
page: 439
pdf_page: 461
sortable_pagination_id: "439"
---
toloue
viz.notonely  thei
ith
what  kind  of  loue,  to  wit, with  a  ferae
)Ic
2wue
onely
,  -but  ia  deed,anc
and  eb  withines,  fia-
a(tantlor  \:in  cheir  wills,  'and  affeRivas\:inrhar  they
rſwraded  by  the  inward  working
of
the  Spirit,  to  logerand
thereto  ,  bcing  turned  by
grace.  Secondly,  becauſe
nent  onely  is
rg
Te
Srwomgetir  ing  becauleit  is'dai-
20  ſy
written  by  the  Spirit
of  Chiara  naviammania  thehearts
of  new  conuerts  :{o  that  they  have  not  onely  a  new,  thatis,  a  true
knowledge  thereot,  butallo  a  new,  that  is,a  truc  ſenſe
and  feeling
ofthe  power  of
it  in  heirkeants-56
in  that  they  are.  become  new
Brroervene  ChriGt  lefus,  Foriahim  elloldr  throge  paſs  away,  aud  all
ps  become  new,2.  Cer.s.  For  tothem  mo
killing  letter,
in  tables  of  ltoneybut  aquickenjag  {pirit,  asbeing  written
inthe  fle(by  tables
of  their  hearts.  T  bis  ſeemeth
to  be  thetrue;tul,
and
meaning  of  theſe
for  thusS.  /obn
x;  Epilile
2.8.
-  WGethexpound
it,  when  hee  faith;that   «  1790  in  bun  and  in  you,  iN
zo  the  ſenſe  betore  ſpecited  :  both  in  regard  of  Chiilt,and
the  belee-
vers
in  Chriſt,
111.  Queft.  Secing  the  commandement
of  loving  our  bre-
thren,is  called
tbe  law  of  Chriſt  and  a  new  commandement,  is
'  pottheGoſpela
newlaw?  Anſwer.  leno  wiſe!
oe
35  andthe  G  =
ihov  of
io
th
ſundriethings,as  firTin
the  A
yo
ro  them  >
of  Go
the
m1.
were  preached,
kno»  ne,and  eb
ing
uri
cart  of  manin  the
ul,
and  repea-
©  our  helF  parents
in  Para:
iately
aft:
mtimeto
ted  againe  andagainetothe  Patriarkes
and  Pr
time,  I
hirdly,in  the  generall  matter,and  endot
both,inthat
th
