---
page: 442
pdf_page: 464
sortable_pagination_id: "442"
---
442
Chap.6.
uf  Commentarie  pon
or  it  forbiddeth  nothing  but  the  motions,  which  are  with  conſent
of  will,  which  wereforbiddeo  in  the  former  commandements,and
ſoineffeR  there  are  but  nine  commandements;the  tedth  forbid.
ding
no  fpeciall  (ione.
Againe,  Paw/teacheth,that  theſe  motions  preventing  all  con-  #
ſcot
of  will,aref
oppoled  to  the  law,  1/ee  another
law  in
my
Rom.7,23.
yu  1"  opp  againſt  the  law  of  iopaping  Secondly,they  anſwer,that
P  aul,  Rem.7.  {peakes  notof  bimſclte,but  in  the  perſon  of  thevnre-
generate,  accordipg  tothe  opinion  of  S.  Auguſtine,  Anſwer,  An.
£*ſeme  indeed  was  once  of  that  judgement,  but  hee  afterretrached  19
that  opinion,  (as  it  is  mapifeſtoutof  hisbooke
of  Kerraltations,and
the  6.  Booke,  againſt  /«lien  the  Pclagian,)  and  that  for  theſe  rea-
ſons.  Firſt,  becauſe  Fas!  ſaith,
7  will  is  preſent  with  mee:  and,
1  dee
wot  the  good  [  would:  and,  I  delight
wn  the  law  of  God  concerning
the  in
werd  may:  all  which  are  proper  tothe  regenerate,  and  cannot  bee  15
afhicmed  of  the  wicked.  Secondly,  becauſe  he  makes  mentionof
the  inward  man,  whichis  all  one  with  the  new  man,
or  the  new
creature  :-  which  agreeth  onely  tothe  regenerate.  Thirdly  ,  be-
cauſe  be  ſaith,  He  «  led  captive  to
ſinne,verle  23.  whereag  the  wicked
arenotdrawne  to
[mneby  torce,  again(t  their  willes,  but  runneriot  2
of  their  owne  accordiintoall  wickedaelle,  as  the  borle  ruſheth  in-
to  the  battell,  Zerem.  8.6,  Laſtly,io  that  he  cries
out  in  a  ſenſe  and
ſorrow
for his  (innes,0  wretched  man  that  1  am,  who  ſhall  deliver  mes
fromtbe  bodie  of  this  death  ?  verſe  25,  whichcan  not  bee  the  voiceof
the  vnregenerate,  for  they  feele  not  the  burden  of  their  (in,nor  de-  23
lire  tobe  caſed  of  it,but  takedelight  and  pleaſure  in  it.  His  ſecond
reaſon  is  this:  ſuch  as  our
knowledge  is,fuch  isour
love  of  Godand
man  :  butour  knowledge  is  onely  in  part:  therforeour  loves  but
in  part,  and  therefore
there  is  no
perfeRfultilliog  of  the  law.  The
aduocates
of  the  Romiſh  Church
anſwer,  that  our  knowledge,
34
Joue,and  obedienceareperfeR  for  the  condition  andeltate  ofthi
life,as  we  are  viaroreszwhich  is  ſufficient  :  though  they  be  not  per»
feRfor  the  condition  of  thelite  tocome,  when  we  (hall  bec
bewſares,  which  is  not  required  at  our  hands  in  this  life  :  for
they
make  adouble  perfeR  tulblling  of  thelaw  :  one,  for  the  tearmeot  35
this  life,  which  is  toloue  God  aboue  all  things,and  our  neighbor  as
our  (clues.  T  he  other  afterthis  life,and  that  is  toloue  God  with  all
the  ſoule,with  allthe  powers  and  facultics  of  the  ſoule,and  with  all
the
th  andvigor  of  all  theſe  powers.
And  this  dillintion  they  make  to  be  the  ground  of  their  opini  4}
on;touchiog  the  fulfilling  of  the  law,  and  iultification  by  workes,
&c.  But  it  is  a
ſandy  toundation,and  therefore  that  which  is  built
vpon
