---
page: 422
pdf_page: 444
---
Chap.6.
A  commentarie  pon
422
?  or  as  —  had  not  made  every  man  aguardianto
is  brother  ?  Thedimme  candlelight
of  corrupt  nature,condem-
neth  theſe  men,  which  teacheth  that  be  which  may  ſave,  and  doth
not,doeth  ineffet  as  much  as  kill,or  deſtroy.  T
bedutietherefore
lieth  vpon  all,  but  chiefly  vpoo  the  Paſtours  and  Miniſters  ofthe  ,
word:  for  they  are  to  inquire  into  the  lives  of  men,  ſpecially  of
thoſe  that  are  committed  and  commended  totheir  charge:  for
v  hich  cauſethey  arecalled  the  Lords  overſcers,  or  watchmen,F.
zech,z  3.and  34.  And  if  they  doe  not  ſtrengthen  the  weakegbeale  the  ſicks,
binde  up  the  broken,  bring  agame  that  which  was  drinen  away,  wer  ſeely  |,
that  which  is  lefF,c+c.  be  will  require  bis  ſheepe  at  their  hands,  Exzxch.z4,
verſe  4.10.  Par/inioynes  the  Paſtours  of  the  Church  of  Epheſus,
that  they  ſbonld  take  beed  to  themſeluer,and  to  the  flocks  whereof  the
Ghoſt  had  mads  them  onverſeers,  Alles  10.28,  and  heecomma
Timothie  that  bee  /bonld  bee  inſtant  m|ſeaſon,  and  out  of  (eaſon;  thit  bee  15
ſhould  improoue,rebukg,  exhort  with  all  long  [uffering  and  dottrme,  2.7m,
4.2,  and  Tux,  that  bee  rebuks  and  extort  with  all  anthoritie  ,
Titm.
2.15.
Further,  it  is  to  be  obſerned,that  thoughall  men  are  bound  to
reproouctheir  neighbours  if  they  offend,  yet  in  five  caſes  they
are  o
"  not  bound.
I.  If  aman  beignorant  ofthe  offence,  For  a  man  that  reprov-
ueth  another,mult  be  certaive  of  the  tault,otherwiſe  he  doth  pur-
chaſe  tohimſelfe  a  blot:  and  private
perſons  are  not  to  prie  i
other  mensaQions,  that  ſothey  may
have  matter
to  reprouc,Pres,
25
24.15,  For  wee  are  boundto  reproovue,  as  wee  are
almes  :  now  wee  arenot  bound  1p  giuing  almes,  to
ſeckeſome,to
whom  we  may  giue;  if  we
giveto  thoſe  whom  we  meet,  t
in  need  of  our  almes,  wee  haue  done  our  dutie.  T  helikeis  inre-
proofes,  And  although  reproote  bee  adebt  which  wee  owe  ont  30.
neighbour;yetit  is  no  debt  due  to  any  private  perſon  (forthen  we
were  bound
to  ſearch  out  the  partie,aod  diſcharge
the.  debt)  botit
i$a  publike  debt-which  we  owetoall:  and  therctoreit  is  not  nece-
ſary  we  ſhould  ſeeke  them out.  If  we
geitto  thoſe  we  met
withall,it  is  ſufficient.  $.  A»gui7me  ſaith
De.  verb,
monet  [)  on  5
Dom,  Sermy
nou  neghgere  1mucem  peccata  nll,  non  queresdo  quod  reprebendas,  ſed
16,
IO.  quod  corrig  PTY
11],  If  heehave  repentedof  bisfaR,  he  is  not
to  be  re
ved,  forthe  end  of  5  qa  toreclaime  him  z  therefore  if
bebe
"reclaimed  already,  t
e  is  no  placeleft  for  reproofc;  although  #
the  Magiſtrate
may  puniſh  and  corre  himin  regard  of  the  com
mon  good.
_—
111,  A
