---
page: 423
pdf_page: 445
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
423
Chap.6.
111.  A  manis  notto  reproout;  if  hee  be  certainehis  reproofe
will  doe  no
:  for  when  the  endceaſeth,all  things  tending  to
theend,doe  likewiſeceaſe;  therefore  if  there  be  oo  hope  ofamend-
ment(which  is  the  end  of  reproofe)  reproote  is  to  be  omitted;
(pe-
z  cially  if  it  bee  ſo  farre  from  betteriog  the  partie,thatitmakebim
much  worle.  Sa/omon  {aith,  Hee  which  inſtrutteth  a  ſcorner,getterh  him-
ſelfe  reproach,  and  he  that  reprooueth  a  wicked  man,  purchaſetb  to  bumſelfe
ablot,  Pron.9.7.  Andthen  headdesinthe  next  verſe,  Rebwhe  not  4
ſcorner,  left  be  bate  thee,  rebucks  a  wiſe  man,and  hee  will  lone  thee,  And
16  verily  it  were  great  folly  toſpend  labour  in  vaine  ,  intelling  them
oftheir  taults,»hen  our  ſchooling  wil  not  better  them,  but  incenſe
them  more  and  more  :  It  werebetter  to  bee  (ileat,  or  to  ſeparate
from  them,  then  to  ftirre  p  hornets,-or  tothruſt
gur  hands
intoa
snealt.  Itis  wellſaid  of  one,that  be  which  ſhall  beftow  the  Muſcul.
edsof  wholſome  admonitions  on  ſuch  curſed  and  voprofitable
ground,ſhallreap  nothing  tor  his  paines,but  the  thornes  of  mocks
and  reproaches.
lt  will  bee  ſaid,  the  ludge  ceaſeth  not  to  puniſh  malefaRours,
thougbtbey  beenot  bettered  by  their  puniſhment,  therefore  ſee-
20  ing  brotherly  correQion  is  commaunded,it  malt  not  be  omitted,  .,
though  the  partiereprooved  be  not  hettered,bur  offended  therby,-
and  made  worſe.  |  anſwer.
|  hetcalon  is  zothing  alike;  fag  the
Iud  =  36
hing,doth  principally  ioteud  the  good  of  the
Com-
b,wbich  commeth  by  challiling,  or  by  cutting  oft  ma»
i5  lefacors,  though  they  themſclues  be  nothing  bettered:  but  the
endof  reproofe,is  the  amendment,and  good  of  him  that  is  reproo-
ved:  therefore  a  man  may  not  bereprooued,  except  it  be  for  his
private  good,  though  the  Magiſtratemay  puoiſh  him  in  regard  of-
the  common
Iv.
oofe  may  be  omitted,  if  it  be  certaine  that  thepartie
will  Cher  recfenthy  redreiſe  bis  fault  without  reproofe:  or  that
ſome  others  wil  admoniſh  him  therof,whom  it  doth  moreneerely
concerae.  As  the  giuing  of  almes  may  be  omitted,  it  jt  bee  certaine
that  the  partie  that  is  in  want,  will  provide  for  himſclte,or  that  he
35  will  be  ſo  tticienly  relieved  by  others,
V.  If  it  may  bee  done  moreconvucniently  and  profitabl  7  a00-
ther  time,  it
may  be  omitted  for  the  time,  Exceptin  theſe  hue  ca-
ſes,  hethat  docth.  not  reprooue  his  brother,  is  guilty  of  bis  Gane,
Lenins.1,
1111.  Point.  I»  what  manner
are men  to  bereprooued  ?
——
The  mannet  to  be  obſcrued  ia  reproguing,  1  will  lax  downein
ten  rifles,
I.  A
