---
page: 427
pdf_page: 449
---
the  Epifile  19  the  Galatians.
Chap.6.
427
a0  arme
Or  a  |  that  is  broken,orout  of  ioynt,to  handle  it  tender-
land  gently,lo  ;
it
nay  bee  molt  for his  good,  and  leaſt  for  his
paine.  More  particularly,this  may  be  done  foure  wayes,
.  1,  When  a  man  doeth  propound  the  reproofe  in  his  owne
i  7  as  Pan/  did,  1,  Corinth,  4.6.  Now  theſe  things,  bretbren,
warwely  applied  unto  mine  owne  (elfe  and  Apoltos,  for
s,
tht  yee  might  learne  by  15,  that  no  man  preſume  5  ane  f
af
{4  _
ten,  Oc,
aprooue  another  inplaine
2,  When  aman  doeth  not  dire
zo  tearmes,
but  clolely  [hewes  a  milli
the
fat,  and  convayetha
reproofe
in  an  exhortation,and
ſo
lapp  =  vp
as  it  were)ioſu-_
:  as  when  a  man  {weares,not
alwaies  to  ſay  ,thos,  Fc,but  jeaand
#4)  ſhall  ſerme  betwixt  1s  ;  what  needs  this  vebemency  betwixt  vs  two?  1
mill  a  ſoone  takes  your  word,ay  your  oath,  fc.
ooſeis;
44  ..  3.  When  the
fe  Seam  in  a  parable:  as  Ns
|  ike  Geale  with  Dans,  ».Somes  12,  and  ac  oor  Saviour
Chriſt  by
4.  When
we  reproouca  man  direQly
(as  at  thelepgth  Nathan
20  did  Dama,  Thow
art the  man,  2.Sam.12,7,)  wee  mult  fo  carrieour
"  ſalvezas  that  thepartie  may  ſee  bimſelferatberreproued  by  God,
then
by  vs:  and  not  to  proceed  bluntly  to  worke,  to  rebuke  and
cenlyre  at  the  very  hilt  :  but  to  vie  ſome  preface  before  hand,  as,
that  we  doe  that  which  we  doe  in  loue  of  his  perſon,  tor  his  good,
15  wiſhing  him  well,  both  cemporally,  the  reputation.  of  bis  name,
and  eternally  the  ſaluation  of  his  Gole,and  that  wee  conſider  our
ſelues  beerein,  bow  that  we  may  ecalily  be  overtaken,as
be  was.
Theſe  cautions  obſerued,  the  inferiour  may  reproue  his  ſuperiour,
u2.Kings  54  3,
30.  VII,  Every
reproofemult  bee  fitted  to  thequalitie  and  condi-
tion  of  him  whom
wereproove  z  and  to  the  nature  of  the  offence
for  which  he  is  reprooued;  we  (ball  fit  the  reproofetotheperſon  re-
prooued,if  wee  confider  that  a  man  may  reprooue  atother  foure
waics,  Fitlby  friend  admonition:  and  thus  one  equall  is  to  reproue
35  another,
Secondly,
by  reverent  and  /abmeſſe  exbortation  :  thus  the
yonger  mult  reprooue  the  elder,  the  inferiour  their  ſuperiovrs.  It  is
commandement  that  wee  ſhould  wet  rebuke  an  Elder,but  ex-
batt  bim  4  @  father,  1.7im.$5.1.  And  thus  Kings  and  great  Poten-
tates.  are  to  bee  reprooued,
hey  being  Patre:  Parrie.  ©  T
hat  ſaying
{2  of  thePhilopher,s  ua,3  34m,  bath  placeinthiscaſe.  Thirdly;
(f
Porpe  repre  eufon:  thus,  Elders  or  ſoperjours  are  to  reproove
cic
inferiours  ,  ſpecially,  if  the  faQ  bee  notorious,  ſcandalous,
hs,
