---
page: 45
pdf_page: 67
sortable_pagination_id: "45"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.r.
J3
thinking  it  to  be  true.  For  then  though  heerre  &  isdeceiued,yet  he
ſpeaks  not  againſt  conſcience,and  conſequently  he  ſpeakes  no  lie.
gaine,  a  man  may  {peake  that  which  is  crue,and  yet  lie:  forif  he
ſpeake  that  which  is  true  indeed,and  ſpeake  it  asa  trueth,  and  yet
p  thinkeitto  be  falſc,belies  indeed  :  becauſe  hee  ſpeakes  the  trueth
againſt  his  conſcience.  The  third  thing  in  alie,
is,  <  wind  or  intention
80  deceine  or  burt.  For  inthe  ninth  commaundement  that  isa  falſe
teſtimony  that  is  agaia(t  our  neighbor,  T  he  fourth  point  is,that  he
which  ſpeakes  that  which  us
falſe  vpon  a  vanity  of  mind  without  rea(onable
to  (aue.coa  liar.  T  bus  boaters  and  Rlatterers  areliers.  Andtheſc  arc
thethings  which  concurre  in  the  making  of  alie.
For  the  better  conceiving  of  the  natureof  a  lie,  wee  muſt  put
difference  between  it  and  ſundrie  other  things  incideneto  ſpecch.
Firſt,  we  mult  put  difference  betweenea  lic  and  ap.rab/e,  or  figare.
:  .
10a  parableindeed  there  is  ſomething  ſuppoſed  or  tained;  as  for
5  example,  when  the  trees  are  brought  in  conterring.,and  conſulting
about  their  king,  /«dg.  9.8.  nevercheletlea  par«ble  15  farre  from
falſehood,  or  lying  :  tor  by  things  tained,  it  ignites  and  declares
an  vofained  truth.
Agaipe,difterence  mult  be  putbetween  alic  ard  the  concealewment
0  ,fathing:  torit  is  one  thing  toſpeake  agaivit  our  kuov  lerige.  and
avother  toſpeake  that  which  wee  knuw.  And  couccalements,if
there  be  areaſonable  cauſle,&  if  it  be  nor  necetlary  tur  vsto  reveale
theching  concealed,  are  notwplawtull.  T  hus  4bram  ipeakesthe
frurh  in  pert.calling  Ser«  his  filter,&  conceals  it  in  part,oot  contel-
?  lingber  to  be  his  wife,  Gen,  12,40.  Thus  Sexe  by  Gods  appoint-
mentreuealsthat  he  came  to  Bethlem  tooffer  ſacrifice,&  conceals
the  acoiotment  of  D«wid;that  he  might  ſaue  his  life,  1.Sam.  16.5.
Tons  preaches  that  Nineue  ſhall  be  deiiroyed  within  fourtiedaies,
26  nd  beconceales  the  condition  of  repentance,  T
belike  did  1/ae
toEzechias,  [[ar.;8.1,
T  hirdly,  a  difference  mult  be  made  betweene  lying  and  famuxg:
which  ſome  call  /imn/at\:on:;  not  diſſembling,  but  rather  /c  woling  (1  I
may  ſotermeit.)  And  thatis,  when  ſomething  1s  ſpoken,  notcon-
trary,but  belide,or  divers  tothat  which  wethink.  And  this  kind  of
faining,it  it  bee  not  tothe  preiudice  of  trueth,again(t  the  glory  of
.God,&  the  good  of  our  neighbor,  and  hauc  ſome  convenient  and
reaſonable  caule,  is  not  vnlawfull.  It  was  not  the  will  and  countell
ot  God  to  dellroy  the  Iſraelites  for  their  idolatry.
And  he  doth  not
49  ſpeake  voto  Moſes  any  thing  contrary  to  bis  will,  but  ſomething
chat
is  be{ide,or  divers  vnatoit,v  hen  he  faith,  Let  me  alone,  that  my
Wrath  may  waxe  hote,  and  [  may  deftroyther-  Exod.32.1  &  And  _
