---
page: 452
pdf_page: 474
sortable_pagination_id: "452"
---
en  |
A  Commentarit
Chap.6.
452
nat,
Let  exery  man  thinks  c20ther  mare  learned,  wiſe  diſcreete,  ſober
then  him{c/fe(tor  fo  he  may  thinke  againſt  his  conſcience)  but  Let
exery  man  think:  another  (that  Is,  any  other  that  is  his  brother  in
the  Lord)  better  then  bimſelfe,  to  witte,  before  God.
And  this
every  man  may  doe  with  good  conſcience;  for  albeit  another  ſhall
outwardly  ſeeme  more  ignorant,  negligent,  backward,  in  matters
of  religion  then  bimſelte,  yet  for  any  thing  he  knoweth,  he  may
be  higher  in  the  favour  of  God,  then  he.  And  therefore  though  a
man  erre  in  thinking  otanother,better
then  of  bimſelfe,
yer  he  ſhal
Thousthe  P»blican  ac-  10
not  doe  any  thing  again(t  his  conſcience,
ccunted  the  proud  Pharifie  better  then  himſelfe.  For  he  held  bim
asiuſt,himſc!fe  not  worthie  to  looke  vp  toheaven  :  yet  herein  he
linned  not,  nay  heiscommended  forit,  though  beerred  in  his
ivdgement  ofthe  Pheriſie.  Ando  it  the  Pharifie  had  reputed  the
P  ublica»  better  then  himſelfe,chat  is,  higher  in  Gods  fayourthen  15
himſelie,he  bad  not  linned,nor  done  againlt  bis  conicience.  For
though  bemight  iodge  himſe!te  more  wlt  then  the  Prblicaniin  re-
gard  of  bis  lic  paſt,
yer  for  his  preſenteſtate  before  God  be  could
not.  Though  Dama  knew  inthe  particular  quarrel]  betwixt  Sax/  &
himghat  Sal  was  vniult,and  heinnocent,  yet  if  he  ſhould  have  19
thought  better  of  Sa«/in  generall,  then  of  himſelte,  he  ſhould  but
have  done  hi>duty.
T  he  fourth  and  laſt  point,containeth  the  remedies  of  this  evill,
which  arc  the  ratherco  be  conlidered,  becauſe  itisa  great  (inne,
oneot  thoſe  ſcuen  which  the  Lord  doth  molt  of  alldeteſt,Pros.7,  15
17.a  dangerous  (innezbaving  a  heavy  woe  attending  vpon  it,  Woe
to  them  that  are  prudent  in  ther  owne  eyes.  [ſ4,5.21.  alinve  almoſt  in-
curable,Sceſt  thou  @  man  that  15  wiſe  wm  bug  owne  eyertthere  is  more  hope
of  a  foole  then  of  him.Prox,26  12,  therefore
the  remedies  are  more
caretully  tobe  knowne,  and  applied.  The  remedies  are  ſpecially  30  Þ  '
hae.
The  firſt  is,  to  looke  ovrlelues  in  the  glaſle  of  the  Law
which  will  ſhew  what  weare  virhoul  cer,  or  partiality  :  and
by
it_we  ſhall  (ce  nothing  in  our
ſelves  but  thevgly  ſhape  of  Sa-
——_——
—  ——
tan,  cleave  detacing  the  image
of  Cod,  and  that  in  vs  there  dwel-  35
kihno
thing(as  Pautfalttrofhimlelfe,
Rom  7  18  ſthatt
is  nothing  but  vanity  inour  mindes,  rebellion  in  our  wills,  a
con-
fuled  ataxicin  all  our  atteAions,  tranſgrcſſion  inpur  lives,
The
viewing
of  our  harts  and  lives  in  the  Law,  and  the  conliderivg  of
our  wretchedeſtate,  in  that  we  are  vader  the  fearefull  curſe,  which  49
isathunJerboltannexed  tocuecry  breach  thereof,  will  drive  vs
out  ot
all  coaceit  of  our  (clues,  trom  our  felfe-  loue,and  (elf  liking:
D3)  3
