---
page: 453
pdf_page: 475
sortable_pagination_id: "453"
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians,
Chap.6.
453
nay»  it  will  makeys  goe  out  of  our  ſelves,  not  onely  to  deny  owy
»  as  Chriſt  commands,  but  even
to  abberre  onv  elves,  ve-
in  duſt  and  aſver,  as  Tob  did,  chap,  43.6:  cauſing  vs  to  be-
come  flat  nothing
io  our  ſelues,
that  we  may  be  ſomething  in
$5  Chrilt,as  Paw/{aith,i  Cor.3.1  8.  Lotuomun  decring  bunſelfe  :  If  any
among  you  ſceme  to  be  wiſe  in  this  world  yet  buns
be  a
foole,  that
be  may  be
wiſe.
Secondly,  "ocn  wefccle  our
{clves  to  de
tickled  with  the.
oehinghamors
(Ee  O26,  20d  Ste  liking,  ariling_from_oor
19  hidden
corruption,
either  i
of  outward
gifts,  orinward
cue
ces
:  we  mult  makeour
innes,  blemiſhes,  imper-_
bleſinne  which  we  have
committed,andthe  borciblepuniſhment,
SS
to  the  which  we  are_lyable  by  reaſon  thereof  :  and  oo  doubt
bat  the  (crious  con(ideration  of  theſe,  or  any
of  thele,  willbe  a-
he
bud,and
entin  the  hel:
d,
kill  che
fi
Peacocke,  now  and  then  caſt  our
downeward,  tv  our  feete,  the  fowle(  and  vglielt  thin  gs  we
ue
notalway  tandia  admiration  of  our  gay
ers,  and
things  for  which  we  looke
Thirdly,  wemuſt  coofiderthatthe
t5
bigh,  and  ſvellioin  gur  owns  conceits,  arc agt our  owne:  but
lent
vs  fora  time.  For  whats:  there,  that  thou  haſt  not  recrined  ?  whe-
of  body,or  graces  of  miade?nay  whether  thou  ſpcake
in  gifts
ther
of  ſoule,  or  body  it  ſelfe  ?  and  if  thow  hiſt  recerned  ut  why  boaſteſt  thou
though  thou  badſt  not  recemedi;  ?  What  vanity  1g
its  fora
go  thy  ſelfe  ar
mano  beproud  of  another  mans  garment
wdmon
Zor  for  a
to
T  he  wicked  perfecutors  of  the  Church
bolt  of  her  bgrrowed  haire?
are  reprooacd
far  /acr\:ficing  ts  their  nettes,  and  burning  mn1enſe  to  they
yarne.  Hab.1.16.  Further,  we  mult  conſider  w
re-
z5  ceived  them  z  but  that  we  haueſo  received  them,  asthat  they  arc
not  our  owne,with  which  we  may  doe  what  we  li(t;  bot  talents  lent
vsforatime,  and  left  wth
vs  toemplayy  over  which
we  are  but
ſtewards  and  bayliffes,not  Lords  or  Maſters,  and  that  we  muſt  be
countable  for  the  ſmalleſt  gift,  cuen  the  lealt  farthing  +  bow  we.
©  hauegot  it,  kept  ic,beſtowed  tt  :  the  time  will  come  whenit  ſhall
beſide  vatothee,  Give  an  account  of  thy  Fewardap.  Lak.  16.  2.
T  berefore  we  ought  not  ſo  much  to  be  puffed  vp  with  a"
Gg  4
