---
page: 432
pdf_page: 454
---
432
Chaps.
A  Commentarie
pon
Fielt,  forthe  rule  :  The  Apoltle  calleth  Nlppes,  infirmities,  and:
Gones,
by  thename  of  burdens,  taking  bis  metapbor  from  travel-
lers,  whovietoeaſc
one  avother,  by  carrying  one  anothers  bur.
den,  either  wholly  or  in  part:  that  ſothey  may  more  cheerefully,
and  ſpeedily  goe  00  io  their  journey.  Mens  burdenaare  of
two
ſorts:  either  (uch  as  every  map  is  to  beare  by  himſelfe  aloge,with-
out  ſhifting  them  off  hisowne  Thovulder,  andlaying  them
0+
ther  men  (  Of  which  wearetointreate,  when  we  come  tothe
bf
verſe.)  Orſuch  agmay  be  borae  of  others,as  well  as  of  our  ſelues:
of  theſethe  Apollle  ſpeaketh  iathisplace,w
ave  yee  1
one  aaothers  burdens;  and  there
are  toure
fortsof  them:  Firſt,  thoſs
whereof  our  brethren  may  either  be  wholly  disburdened,oria
part
caſed,  ſuch  isthe  heauy  burden  gf  povertic,lickenetſe,nakedneile,
buoger,thirſt,  baniſhmeot,impriſonment,  &c.  Secondly,
the  out-
ward  and  bodily  wants,that  are  in  ſundrie  perſoos,  as  blindnelſe,  1;
deafeneiſe,maimeduelle,lameneſle,&c.T  hudly,
acu-
all  (ins  of
men,as  avger,hatred,icalovlie,  envic,gec.  Laitly,outward
frailt  ieiotbeaBioneof  mensliues  :  |  SEE
of  choſethat  are  ſubietvnto  them,
but  archeauie
to  0-
ot
thers  with  whomthey  cgoverle)  Jute  ys  or  a;
nelle,  ſelfe  conceitedneile,  frowardnetfe,  haltinefſe,andſoch  like:
T  he  two  ficlt  (orts,are  to  be  borpethreewaics,
holy  ſympathie,  a
in  weeping  with
that  weege  :  and  inremembring  theſe  tht  arein  bonds,  ar  though
we  were
bound  with  them;  theſe  that  are  mm  offaftion,  a1  if  we  were  «lſe  rffubled  15
in  the  body,  Ebr.13.v.z.  T  bis  was  Paw/r  practiſe,  2.  Cor.  11,29.  #bs
tr  weake,  and
[  am  not  weake  ?  who  offended
and  1  burne  not!
ly,  by  bearing  withthem  intheir  wantgsand  i
tics,”
tothatof  the  Apoltle,  Beare  with  the  werke,  1,7  hefſ,  5.  14,
ly,  by  petting  vader  our  ſhoulders,  and  bearj
bur-  76
den  with  them  ,  in  helpiogand  ealing
io  their  neceſſities,
Rewm,12.v.13.  Diſtributing  vnto  the  neceſſuie:  of  rhe  Favur,
The  two.
\latter  forts  (  beeiog  principally  meant  in  this  place)  arenottobe
borve  by  ditſembling  ofthe,  or  yeelding  totbem,muchleſſe  by
bolſtering  men  vp  in  them,
or  by  partakivg  with  them,  Foralbet  ;5.
the  adultercr  and  vacleane  perſon  would
gladly  make  Chrilt  a
baud,  the  thiefe  would  make  him  his  receiver  \:and  many  there
are  who  would  be  content  to  ſhift  off  their  hnves,
in  whole,  orin-
part,and  lay  them  vpontbe  ſhoulders  of  others\:yet  in  Gods
and  quarrell,ia  mattersof  faith,we  are  not
Ire
bredeh;  4
49jer  told  Pharas,  that
he  would  not  leave  ſo  mn
buw,Fxed.10  26.  And  Pani  wowld  not  gine  placete  Peter  and  them  that
weae
