---
page: 455
pdf_page: 477
sortable_pagination_id: "455"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.6.
455
mans  worke,and  withall  in  the  approving  of  itvnto  God.  Let  every
men  approvue  his  owne  norke,  And  hee  giues  two  reaſons  why
man  ought  to  approve  his  awne  works  vato  God,and  to  conlider
them  abſolutely  io  themſelves,  and  not  relatively  in  reſpeRot  c»
5.  thers:  the  felt  reaſon  is  in  this  verſe,  rhew  ſhall  hee  bane  reioncing  in
himſelfe  onely,and  not  in  another  ;  the  ſccond,in  the  next  verle,for  exe-
ry  man  ball  beare  bis  owne  burden.
Toucbing  theremedy.  Let  ewery  man  proone  his  owe  worke,  T  he
wotd  tranflated  *  proove,  (ignifieth  alſo  to  approove,  as  Rew.  14.22,  95"
10  Bleſſed  is  be  that  condenmath  not  in  himſelfe  in  the  thing  that  be  approueth,  i»  ©Husts.
3.Cor.15.  3.  Whoſoener
ye  ſhall  approve  or  allow  of  by  letters,  Andſo  the  *citr  dug
word  is  viedin  Engliſh,  when  wee  ſay,  ſuch  a  cneis  ro  proowe  4  will,”
that  is,to  approove  it.
\.  The  wordin  this  place
(I  take  it)  may  bee  vnderſtood  in  both
14  ſenſes,v0  proone  ewr  wor  ks,and  to  approene  them,  How  weare  to  proue
our  workes,by  taking  trialland  exarioationof  them,l  have  alrea-
dy  ſhewed  inthe  former  verſe.  But  we  ate  further  10  approoxe  them  to
cording  to  Pax/scommandement,  ſtudy  io  ſocw  thy  ſeife  appro-
weduynto  God,2.Timnh.2.15.2nd  his  practile,  in  coueting  alway  to
20  bre  acceptable  umobim,  2.Cor.5.9.  T  his  approovingof  our  works,
is  a  ſoueraigne  remedie  againlt  overweening  of  our  ſelues  for  hee
that  alwayes  ſtands  vpon  his  tria!l  ,  and  Gods  approbation,  can-
not  beepuffed  'vpwithſelte-loue  of  himlelfe,  or
lelte-liking  of  bis
owne  workes:  butrather  humbled  with  the  con(ideration  of  Gods
25  abſolute  iuſtice,  and  hig  owre  imperteQions,  and  (o  (lirred  vp
with  great  diligence,  to  worke  out  his  ſaluation  with  fearc  and
trembling.
Now  we  ſhall  approve  our  workes  vnto  God,ifwe  ablcrue  tbeſe
three  things.  Ficſt,  thar  all  our  ations  ſpecially  (inthe  worſhip
ipand
$0  ſervice  0'  G
ounded  vpon  the  will
aod  word  of  God  Is
not  ypon'
wil  worſhi
INuentions:
{ec
it  will  be
id,#ho  requared  theſe  thm  144  your  hand.
—  Secondly,  that  weperforme  all  our  ations  (incerely
and  vp-
rightly,as  1nthe  prefence  of  God,with  an  booelt  heart,aud  a  good
35  conſcience\:as  Abimelect  protelterh  of  bim(clie,Gen.20.5,  and  He-
wxhiahJſay.38.3.and  Paw  At,23.1.
T  hirdly  that  they  alway  tendto  a  good  end,as  the  glory  of  God
Wh-ther  ye  e\:ite  or  drinks  cr  whatſocucy  yee  doe,doe  «/l10  ;  glory  of  God,
1.Cey.  19.30.  and  the  good  of  our  brethren,
Let  «ll  things  bee  dove  10
49  edification,  1.Cor.  14.36.
It  may  here  bedemanded,  whether  wee  may  not  approove  our
ſelues  and  our  ations  to  men  ?  Towhich  I  anſwer,  that  wee  may.
aud
