---
page: 457
pdf_page: 479
sortable_pagination_id: "457"
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians,
Chap.6,
which  they  ſpall  ſee,  glerifie  God  inthe  day  of  their  viſitation,
Fiftly,  io
doing
uft  got
reſpeR  the  judgement
of  the  world
cari
nor
of  men.
T  his  was  Pav/r  prattile,1.Cor.4.3.  /  paſſe  very  lutle  to  bee  indged  of
5  y0u,  or  of
mans  1ndgernent  :  wee  mult  goe  through  good  report
and  ell
t,2.Cor,6,s,
La(tly,we  mult  ſceke  to  be  approved  of  men,not  ſomuch  in  re-
ard  of  owp  {
anc  more  aduanced  ;  for  owr  lg  be  muſt
ſo  me  before  men,  that  they
10  m7
ee  our  good  workes,and  glorifie  our
Father  which  is
in  beawen,  Matt,
5.16,  It  weeobſecructhelec
lixe  cautions,
wee  may  with  good  con-.
ſcienceſecke  fo
ger
8  good  pame,  which  will  be  vatoy
"7
ovsoyntment,retreſhiogvs  with  the  comfort  of  a  godly  life,Prow.
22.1  Eccleſ7.3,
OS
15
Thus  muchoftheRemedy.  Thereaſor  followeth,  Andthen  (2.1
bee  hawe  whereof  to  retoyce  in  bimfelfe,  and  nit  in  another,  T  he  wordes
tranſlated  toreronce,  ignifie,to  glory:  which  is  morethento  reiozce.  wie  ttm,
There  is  a  dooblegroupd  dof  glor  ing:  on
a  mans  lelte  :
anotherin  himſelfe,  Out  of  himſclte,in  God  alone,  Let  wot  the  wi/e
10  man  glory  in  bis  wiſcdome,  nor  the  firong
man  in  hu  ſtrength,  nor  the  rich
man  in  bu  richer,  But  let  bis  that  glorieth,  glory  wm  this,that  her  derſtan-
deth  and  knoweth  me,  [erem.
9.2  3,24.  1,Cor.1.31.  Io  himiclie,  i  the
comfortable  tetimony  of  a  goodconſcience,  Onr  glorying  us  this,
the  teſt1mony  of  our  conſcience  that  tn  ſimplicitie  and  godly  purenes
we  hane
15  bad  our  converſation  in  the  world,  2.Cor.1.12.  The  oneis  glory  ivg
be-
fore  Gad;the  other  before  men,
T  he  one,of  iuſtifieation,the  other
of  holy  converſation  for  time  paſt,  and  conſtant  reſolution  for
timeto  come,  T  he  one  in  the  teltimooy  of  our  conſcience,  2  {  v.
1.12,  theother,intheteſlimany  of  Gods  Spirit,  witnelhing
to  our
30  ſpicits;that  wee  are  the  ſounes  of  God,  Rew  8.  16.  The  bell  Tonot
meant  iothisplace,  but  onel7  the  ſecond,  For  no  flo  can  glory  in  tis
preſence,1.Cor.  1.29.
It  will  be  ſaid,  T
his  glorying  in  a  mans  ſelfe,is  vaine  glory,and  a
branch  of  pride.  A«(wer.  It  differs  from  vaineglorie:  tirlt,in  the
#3  foundation:
for  vaine  glory  hath  for  his  ground  our  owne  ver-
tues  and  gifts,  conſidered  ascomming  from  our  ſelues,  and  not
from  Godz  whereas  this  truc  glorying  is  grounded  vpon  them,as
they  are  fruites  of  regeneration,  proceeding  from  our  iultification
by  Chriſt,  and  reconciliation  with  God.  Secondly,  in  the  end:
4  Vaine  glory  tendeth  to  the  aduanciog  of  ourſelues,io  an  opinion
of  our  proper  jullice,anddeſert,  T  his  trucglorying  aimcib  at  the
glory  of  God  alone,
Obielt,
