---
page: 458
pdf_page: 480
sortable_pagination_id: "458"
---
of  Commentarie
pon  -
Chap.6.
Obicft,  Paul  reprooues  thoſe  that  conlider  their  owne  gifts  on.
ly,neuer  comparing  themſelues  with  others,  2.Co7.  10.  =
derſtend
net  that  they  meaſure  themſelwes  with  themſeluer  ,
and
themſelnes  wth  themſelner.  Therefore  it  ſeemes  that  a  man  by  com.
paring  him(clfe  with  others,may  have  whereot  to  reioyce.  Anſwer,  5
He  reproves  the  falſe  apoltles
in  that  place  for  glorying  inthegifes
which  they  had,  and  the  number
of  Proſelytes  which  they  had
wonne,  neuer  comparing  themſclues  with  himſelfe,  or  wny  other
Apollle,which  was  the  cauſe  they  were
fo  puff<d  vp  with  pride.  For
to  compare  our  {clues  with  thoſe  that  are  eminently  above  vs,  ia  19
notable  meanestoabate  un  \:as  |  havealready  ſhewed,  Where.
as  the  meaſuring  of  our  ſelues  by  our  (clues,  with  ovrioferiours,  is
theonely  way  toincreaſeit.  And  thisis  it  whicb  the  Apollle  re
provues  in  this  place.
He
j-
Further,wee  may  reioyce,
or  gloriein  theteltimony  of  a
ls
cor{(ciencey'f  we  obſcrue  theſe  rules,
Ns.
1,  ln  ourbelil  deſires,  endeauours,  ations,  wee  mult  labour  to
feele  our  owpe  deteRts  :  that
we  doenot  the  good  wee  ſhould,  nor
in  that  manner  weought.
11.  Wemult
labour  to  baue  cuen  out  belt  workes,  (our  almes,
16
ayers,&c.)  couered  with  therighteouſnesof  Chriſt:  for  itisthe
5  atens  of  his  ſacrifice.that
doth  perfume
all  our  ations,  that
they  may  be  acceptable  to  God,  being  offered  with  the  praterr
of  the
Saints  pon  the  golden  altar,  Renel.8.,,
I  11,  Wee  muſt  acknowledgeall
the  good  things
we  have,the  is
will,  and.the  worke,the  purpoſe  and  the  power,  toproceed  from
God  alone,Fbil.2.13.lames  1.17.
1111,  Wee  mult  reioyce  in  them,  not
as  cauſes,but  as  fruitesof
juſtification  :ſo  that  if  the  quelhon  be,whether  we  be  iultified  by
them,or
not  ?  wemuſt  renounce  them,  tread  them  vnder  our  feet,  30
and  account  them  as  dung,as  Paw/did,Phil.;.S,
Hence  welearneſundey  things,
I.  Thatif  we  would  havea  light  heart,  and  paſſe  our  timemer-
rily  with  comfort  and  content  ,  wee  mult  looke  to  approove  out
hearts  to-God  in  all  our  aRions,
+7:
11.  Ie  confutes
the  opinions
iadge
thoſe
that  ma
At.24.15,
common  lort,  cadea
this  is  the  onely
trug  igy,  all  ocher  oy  is  but  counterfeit  in  comps:
riſca  3;  1t  is  radicall,  procceding  from  thetiearr\:The
other  bur
lyper-
yr
——
———
Sree
——
Ro
cially,
