---
page: 24
pdf_page: 46
---
ſfacceedas  Prophetsafter  them,  Therewere  48.citiezof  the  Levites
diſperſed  throughall
the  tribes,  where  not  onely  the  people  were
taught,  but  alſoſchoolesereed  that  they
might  be  taught,  which
wereto  be  Prieſts  and  Leuites,  Nww,z7.One  city  among  therelt  is
called  Cireath  ſpphar,  loſw.1  5  15.that  isgthe  cnicof  bookes,or  as  welay,  $
the  Vaiuter  fitte.  Samuel  a  yorg  man  was  -ſeht  to  the  Tabernacle  in
Shilo,to  be  taught,and  trained  vp  of  E/ethe  Prieſt,  Sawwe!  when  he
waziudgeof  lirael  ereted  Colledges  of  Prophets,and  ruled  them
himſelic,  1Saw-10.1n  thedecaied  eſtate  of  the  ten  tribes,Z/ias  and
Elizrus  (etvopicheoles
ofthe  Prophets  in  Bethel,  Carmel,&c.and  1g
-the  yong  (ludents
were  called  be  ſannet
of  the  Prophets,  2.King.2.3.
Chriſt  himſelfebeſide  theſermonsmadeto  the
ined  vp
and  taught  himſelfe  histwelue  Apoltles,and  bis  feventy  Diſciples,
Panl  commands  Tewmerkbieto  trench  that  which  be  bad  lerrned,to  ſuch  1
ſnaltbr  fit  roteach  others.2  .Tum.z;  2.Furthermore,  this  teaching  is  of  1  5
greae  vie.  Forie  ſerues  to  maintaine  the  true  interpretation  of  (crip-
tare,the  purity
of  doctrine  :
and  it  is  a  meanes  to  continge  the  mi.
niltery  totheend  of  the  world,
The  meane(t  arte  or  trade
that  is,is
not  learned  without  great  teaching:  then  much  more  teaching  is
requiced  in  divigity,wbich  is  the  arte  of  albarts,  The  true  interpre-  20
tation  of(cri
the  right  cutting  ofthe  word+is  a  matter
of
great  difficulty;anda  matrer(whatſocuer  men  thinke)of
the  grea-
telt  lcarningin  the  world.  Thereforeit  is  necetlary,thar  teacbers
ſhould  firſt  be  taught,and  learne  aright  the  Goſpel  of  Chriſt.  Elea-
uenhundred  yeares  after  Chriſt,men  began  to  lay  alide  Aoſer,and  25
the  Pro
the  writings  of  thenew  Teltament,  and  to  ex-
o_
writings  ofmen,  as  the  Sentences  of  Perer  Lumbard.
enceignorance,ſuperſticion,&  idolatry  come  headlong  intothe
world.Seeing
then  the  teaching  of  them  that  are  to  be  teachers,  is
of  ſach  antiquity,and  vie,a!l  men  areto  be  exhorted  to  patto  their  30
helping  hands,  that  this  ig  goe  forward,  Princes  areto
maintaineit,  bytheir  bountifu
,  and  authoricy,  as  they  bave
done,and  doe  (til\:and  that  which  they  doe;they  mult  doe  it  more.
Parents  mult  dedicatethe  fittelt  of  their  children  tothe  ſeruice  of
Its
Ares
os
Godin  the  miniſtery,  and  not  tovſe  itin  the  laſt  place  for  a  ſhift,  35
OAT
TY
AN
%  E097,
ATA,
CER
as  they  doe.  For  commonly,the  eldeſt  mult  be  the  heire,  the  pext
the  lawyer,the  yongelt  the  divine.  Students  mult  loue  and  affet
this  calling  aboue  all  other,1.Cor.  14.2.  Laſtly,all  men  muſt  make
prayer,that  God  would  prolperand  blc(ſeall  Schooles  of  learning)
where  this  kind  of  teachingas  io  vſe,
40
Here  againe  it
appeares,  that  Chriſtis  God,  and  more  then  a
mecre  man,b
eis  oppoledta  man:  and  that  Pax!  receiued
authority  |
