---
page: 438
pdf_page: 460
---
A  Commentaxie
pow
in  commandiog  to  loue  one  another,  as  he  loued
vs.  Others  ſay,  it
js  called  anew  commandement,  becauſe  itoughttobe
kept  with
as  great  care,and  diligence,as  thou
it  were  new,  and  had  beene
now  firlt  given  :  for  newlawes(we  know)are
preciſely
kept  at  the  firſt,  butafter  a  while,they  begin  to  benegle&ed  :  and  5
men  doe(as  it  were)  antiquate  them,  accounting  them  as  though
they  were  not.
Others,  by.a  new  com
mandement,  vnderſ}and  another  divers
or  different  commandement  z  for  Chriſti  the  beginning
of  the
Chapter,had  giuen  thema  comandement  to  fly  pride;to  be  hum-
blezto  live  at  peace,  and  concord  one  withanother  :  and  then  he
a  new  commandement,  1.2  cormmandement
diffe.
bat  ye  lowe  one  another.
he  word  New  is  often  taken  iv  ſcripture
in  this  ſenſes,
anew  ling  which  knew  not  Toſepb\:that  is,  (asthe  70.15
1.8.There  aroſe
interpreters,and  S,  Lake,  A.7.1$,trantlate  it)anorber  king.  Mer.16
1  7\:they  ſhall  ſpeakg  with  new  tongues,  that  ig,otherdiners,  or  differex
laoguages,from  theirvſualle
the  meaning  is  oot  that
which  was  never  ſpoken
cy  invented  anew  lan
that  they  ſpake
in  a  language  divers  from  that  which  they  vſedbe-1
fore:  foritislaid,  A2.2.4.  They  begannet
emitb  othert
Thus  our  Saviour  Chrill  telleth  bis  A
bet  he  will  not.
ary  moreofthe  fruit  of  the  vine,tull  be  dr1
it  new  with  them  unthe
dome
of  Godz/Manh.26.29.
Where  by  new  wxe,  he  meanctb  not
liquor  or  iuyce  of  the  Grape,  to  preſerve  animall  life:  but  ave-  #5
therdifferent  drinke,  wherewith  he  would  entertaine  all  that  were
iovited,  and  came  vnto  his  table.  But  theſe  expolitions  arenotſ
I  take  it  therefore
tobe  called  «new  commandement
,  cither  in
of  vs:  inreſpeR
of  C  rilt  two  waies:
Ei
40
Becauſe  berenved  it,  not  onely
andinterpretations
ofthe  5Scribes  &  Phariles
lewiſh
Rabbigs:
but  alſoio  fulkilling  it  moll
pert]
whereasit  was  0b  li
off
antiquated,
35
did  never
fo  pe
comm.\:ndement,  that  ye  Jour  one  av01
have  abrogated  the  ceremoniall  law
yet
thiscommandement
ſhall  never.  be  abrogated\:ap
