---
page: 461
pdf_page: 483
sortable_pagination_id: "461"
---
the  Eprſile  ts  the  Galatians.
Chap.6.
461
111,  Obiefs,  Infants  which  have  not  Goned  after  the  manner
ofthe  tranſgreſſion  of  4dom.,  doe  beare  the  burden  of  Adams
JF  vinys
|  TIT:
7;
1.2
or  -as  Lew  was  in-the  loynes
Mm
Ty   CMLIneLT  wet
himyand  payed  tithes  in
Abrabams,  Hebr.7.9,10,  SOzall  mankind  was  iv  the  loynes  of  4-
dam  when  he  (inned,  as  the  branches  arc  intheroot,orim  theſced,
I  LIT  Wn
we  A  wes  T
when  he  Tinned;
Andtberfore
In  whon  all  ſued,  Romances  5.12.  Forio  are  the
510  the  origi»  iy'  5  ns
nalland
act  as  it  iscommonaly  tranſlated.
for  47  much  as  il]  men  bane  +21"
IV.  Obieftex,.  ln  the  ſecond  commandement,the  Lordthreat-
neth  eo  viſite  the  ſiones  of  the  fathers  vppn  the  children,to  the
third  and  fourth  generation.  T  hereforethey  beare  not  their  owne
burden,
but  part  of  their  parents  burden  :  and  parents  do  not  beare
theirowae  whole  and  entire  burden,but
their  children  for  thern.
Anſwer.  T  be  clauſe  io  the  ſecond  Commaupdernene,  of  viiing
the  Ginges  of  the  fathers  vpon  theckildren,  doeth  not  contradict
that  of  Fzecch.18.  19.  The  /onne  ſball  not  beare  the  mgquitie  of  the  fa-
jo  ther,  neitber  ſpall  tbe  ſat  her  beare  the  waquitie  of  the  ſoune;  the  ſam:  ſonle
that  ſonneth,
that  ſpall  die.  For  they  are  recouciled,  verſe  24.17.  /f
bee  (that  is,a  wicked  man)  begt  @  ſonne  that  ſeeth  all  hus  fathers  francs,
which  be  bath  done,  xd  feareth,  neither  doecth  the  Lke
—  be  fhall
not  die
-  —_
the  lame  an{weris  given  in  the  ſecond  commandement,  that  God
{©  will  not  vilite  the  hnne  of  the  fathers  vpon  the  children,  lave  vpon
thoſe  that  hate  hims.  It  may  be  (aid,  T  he  {innes  of  the  parents  are  not
vigdicated  vpon  the  children,  becauſe  the  puniſhment  inflicted
\  pon
