---
page: 441
pdf_page: 463
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galavians,
Chap.6.
ſinnes  »  and  the  puniſhment  there
and  ſo  may  accuſe
_  —_
and  condemnethbem  :  the
lis  to  be
ppbli
onely  tothe  penitent,  which  are  contrite  and  broken  in  heart.and
'  mourne  for  their  ſinges,  Marth.  1  1.1/4.5  7.  Luke  4.
5s
1111.  The  Law  promileth
cteroall  life,  vpon  condition
of
workes  :  Doe  this,  and  le  :  If  thow  wilt  extev  into
tife  ,  keepe  the  (oms-
marndement  r.  The  Golpell  promiſeth  eternall  life  freely  withont
any  condition  of  workes.  Remaner  4.  5.  To
him  that  worketh  nor,
but  beleeweth  in
him  that  waFtifie  th
tbe  vngodly,  bis  faith  is  comnted  to  him
10  for  righteouſneſſe.  Rom.  3.21,24.  The  righteonſne(ſe  of  God  is  made
manife#t  without  the  Law,
by  the  faith
of  leſs  Chrift,  unto  all,  and  vpon
all  that  beleewe.
V,  lo  the  effeAs.  TheLaw  is
noin{iromentall
cauſe  of  faith,
repentance,
of  any  ſaving  grace:  it  is  the  mindter  of  death,  2.Cor,
15  37.cauſing  wrath,Row.3.15.  But  the  Goſpell  cauſetblife:
it  is  che
grace
of  God  which  brivgeth  ſaluation,  Tins  2.11,  Forthis  cauſe  Paw
ined,  or  tillns  {
he  Goſpell
calleth  the  Law,s  Les
ſwu,2.Cor.3,
Fourthly,  it  may  be  demaunded,  whether  any  man  bee  able  to
|  12  fulfillthe  Law,  conlidering  that  Pa»  biddeth  vs  beare  one  ano-
thers  burdens,
and  of
ofaifil  the  Law
of  Clift?  e
Asſwer,  No  meere
fl
oli
man  can  perfetly
tulbll
the  Law  in  this  life.  Th
lion  $
Pew  prooveth  in  ſungrieof
bis  Epi
ially
by  theſe  argu-
ments.
15”  Firſt,by  the  great  and  gone  depravation  of  nature,whicb  re-
maineth  in  part  cuen  in  theregenerate,  (taining  their  belt  ations,
and  making  then  like  a  meoſtruouscloath:  conte(ſing  withal\:that
bi7Eelwockes  are  not  an{werableto  the  law,  by
reaſonof
there-
mainders
of  originall  corroption,Kow.7.  Now
perteRt
jo  thelaw,cannot  (and  with  corruption
of  cater  ration
in
life.  For  acorrupt  fountaine  cannot  ſend  f
waters:
veither
can  a  corrupt  tree  beare  good  fruit.  Saivt  James  ſaith,  Hee
that  effendeth  in  ene,  ts  gux/tie
of
all:  nnd  the  Scripture  pronounceth
dim  accucſed,  that  abideth  wot  in  all  things  written  m  the  books  of  the  law
45  19  dee  them,  Popiſh  DoRours  anſwer,  brit,  that  originall  corrup-
3s
tion  (which  they  call  the  fewell
of  fione)  and  the  brit  motions  to  pq...
evill,  prevevtiog  all  conſept  of  will,  arc  1ndeed  in  the  regenerate;  cx,
butthey  are  no  (linnes  properly,  But  it  is  falſe  which  they  teach.
Forevery  tranſgreſſion  of  the  Lawzis  a  linne,as  Saint  Job»  defines
it,1,/obs  3.4,  but  theſe  are  tranſgre({ions  of  thetenth  Comman-
42
dement  :  For  it  either  forbiddech  theſc  firlt  motions,  whether
they  bee  primo  prime,  or  [ecundo  prime,  (as  Schoole-men  ſpeake)
or
