---
page: 443
pdf_page: 465
---
the  Epiſtle  10the  Galitiaps.
Chap.s.
ere  FR  For  bu(idos  ms  uri  ths  frivvlovs
diftm
red
by  Schookemen,)w
watratir
of  Scripture
|S  gs  rt  gan
orcooſent  of  Aniriquitie  ;
itismaniteſtly:  falſe.  'Forth&tis  one
vachangauble  'a5\  God"  hitnſclfe  :
Medes  ame  Perfjans,  even  as
all  fig  ortho  Lew
in
wet
Howbicb  comment
which  is,  that,
der  them,  it  'actarfed,  Soxtathewhich  loberhnerGod  with  all
his  ſoule,  minde,  and  might,  with  all  his  va/de/zo,  thatis,  withall
of  hisſoule;andallrhepowersof  alltheſe  taculties  ,
19  the  faculties
avd  that  in4his  lifejis  accurſed?  Andic  is  abfiredwhith
they
teach;
that  a  manis\note-Bbubt  fot  thereamook
this!  lifs;  |  ehagto  loue
God,  but  auelyirthelife  tveome.  Forfooke  whathhan  coyld  doe
by  creation,in  the  eſtate
of  innocency  ,  the  fanit  and  {0  much  the
15  Law  requires  at  his  bands  in  the  Rate  of  Apoſtalie,  But  Adam  by.
creationcould  loue  God  with  all  his  ſoolte;withall  the  faculties  of
bis  oule,and  allchepowers  of  all  theſe  facolties  "therefore  the
fame  perte&ablolure;and  entire  obedience  fs  now  requiredat  his
hands.  For  theſenrence  of  the  law,  Crurſedir  br  that  comtmiceth  not
20  in  all  things,  ee,”  isnot  onely  given  tomen  lorified;
but  to  thoſe
that  arein  theſtate  of  grace,  And  S,.Pav/doth  ſo  apply  this  ſen  -
tenceto  meneven  inthis  life,  that  he  pronouneeth  eH'rhat  arc  of
the  workes  of  -  the  Law,  tobe  vnderthe  curſe.  Againe,if  this  were
ſp,  the  ewes  had  no  cauſe  ito.  feare
ticand  tcianetfe
a;  ofthe  Law,  '
as  they  did\:when  they  ſaid,  '/wr  beaver  the  woice  of  the  1.1...  o
»-  wy
Lordany  more,we  /ball  die\:conidering.  they  wereableto  keepe  and  Deurt.  18,16.
fulfillic,according  ro  this  Popiſhopinion.  Neitherwould  God  have
promiſed
them  a  Meſhas/ge  Medittaurtovedeemethem
fromthe  Deur.  18.18.
curſe  ofthe  law:  but  woldrather  have  comforted
them  inthat;their
56  ſogreat  feare  and  Gn  tovnderſtand  that
they  werenot  buund  tothefull  and  perfeR  fulblliog  ofthe  law  for
the  time  of  this  life,
Beſzdes,  the  pathcticall  exclamation
of  Par,  O  miſerable  man
that  ]  amy,  Rem.7.24.a0d  that  ſayitig  of  Peer;in  calling  the  law,
35  «yobe,which  neither  we  nor  our  fathers'were  able  to  beare,  472.15.
wy
<a
ſhosld  be  childiſh  and  ridiculous,  ifr  het  which  15  rmpoſſible  ”1  the  law  ol.
(43  Pan!  ſpeakes)did  nort-appertaine  vntovs.
'-Thethird  argument,   Ifa  man  coutd  fulfil  the  Lawhe  ſhonld
zac
a4
53
&K
=  £.<
os
&  of
not  filaridin  need  of  a  Mediatour.  forufrighteanſmeſſe  bby  the  Law,
Clrf  died  is  vaine,  Gat/2  210  Ivixaniwered;  \  that  Chrift  dyed
T  Mi.
inyaine
,  if  met  by  the  |
th  of  'ndtore  could  fulfill  the
Law:  but  the  fulfilling  of  the  Law  is  by  grace,  and  ſo  his  death  -
BD
F-
1S
