---
page: 444
pdf_page: 466
---
are  ourgwne  Sauiours;  whereas  the  Scripture  ſaith,  that  bee  «©
made  vntou;
righteenſaeſſe,  1.Corinth,  1.30.not  that  _  made  y
i  Tres
eby
him.  That  wro are  made  the
rightetuſmeſſeof  God
15  Iu  "+  Conwdv5-04.  notbybimacenioimment,  -  26  a
compli  '  him,  Coleſſ.  2.10,  and  not  complete  of  our  ſelues,
by
Laſtly,the  Seripture  ſhatteth  vp  all  men  vnder  finne  ,  even  the  16
molt  an
ified;P
row.2  0.9,  1.Tobn  1.9.  /eb  cooteiſeth  hecannot  an.
meronyefs  thouland,/eb  9.3.  and  D  avid  faith,  If  thew,  Lord,  bal
marks
what
14  dane  anne,
who  cab  abide
it  ?  Pfalew.  t30.  3.  and  Pas!
faith
of  himſelfe,  that  bee
ws  weaver  to
that  which  «
which  make  men  lingers  indeed,  yet  are  not  egaini?,
but  befidethe
Lows
a  man  commit
themy  yet  be  may  full
thelawe  forall  chat,  Anſwer.  The  comman  reccived
i  26
of  their
Schooles,  that  ſome  ſinnes  are  martall,  others
nouacing  bim  accurieds  they  coruererh  netin  all  rhengs  written  in  the
Lawe,
not  this,  Lawe,  Sothat  every  (inne,  cuen  the  lealt  Gnne
in  39
of
to  the  cutie,  and  {o  io  rigour
thought,  makes  a  man  ſobje
divine  luſtice,  deſerves  eternall  death,  And  it  js  but  a  poore  (bift;
to  lay  that  ſome  finors
are  wgwinit'  the  Love,
and  others  beſides  the,  Lov,as  veniall,  For the  deing  of  thatwbich
God  forbiddeth,  is-a  ſinne,
not  beſide,  but  agent
rhe  Laws,  But  tf
eee)  om  bing,  &c.  (  which  the  Popith  Doctours
account  veniall  (innes  *
are-expreſlely  forbidden:  in  the  word,.
fall  peaks,  they
wile  word  thatmen
Hatthewa  4.verle  36.  Of
enery
as  the  dung  of  indgement,  And  Pans  forviddeth  as
/pall  gre  actouut'
T  here-4®
Epheſoans  5.4.
and  ieftg,aq  things  vacamelyy
foolyh  talking,
thy  Laws.  Secondly  ,  they
fore  they  arenot  5-frde,  but
Af
e  are  tobe  vaiderliood  of  feue-
an{wer,that
theſe
pl
theh
