---
page: 445
pdf_page: 467
---
Chap.6.
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
as  Davids  ſparing
of  Sax),  &&c,  Some  evill  ,  as'  bis  adultery,  mor-
ther,  and  numbrivg  of  the
people  :  and  not  of  the  fameparticu-
lar  workes.  Anſwer.  Itis  falſe.  For  Paa/  ſpeaking
of  thefame  in-
5  dividuall  worke,  faith,  that  it  is  partly  good,  and  partly  evill,  /
finde,  when
{4  dee  good,  that  evill  ic  preſent  with  wite,  Rom.  7.21,
Jn  my  munde  1  ferue  be  lawe  of  God,  in  my  body  the  laiveof  fine,  verſe
25.  And  the  Prophet  ſaith  ,  that  ll  owr  'r1ghttouſneſſe  is  as  a  men-
firueus  cloath,  [ſai,  64  4.  T  herefore  every  good  worke  is  flamed
T  bus  much  fhal  ſuthceto  ſhew,that  it  is  impoſiitiefor
any  man
inthe  time  of  this  life  co  folblthe  Law,  Thereafohs:  alleadyed  to
the  contrary
,are  ſufficiently  anfwered'  before,  Pa
ge  150.&c,  To
which  place  |  referre  the  Reader.
15
lt  may  further  be  ſaid,  if  we  cannot  perfectly  folkllthelaw,why
doth  Pal  command  vs  to  beareoneanothers  burthens,  |
and  ſoto
falfill  the  law  of  Chriſt  ?
Firlby  _
Anſier.  T  he  law  is  faid  to  bee  fulfilled  three  wa
perſonal!  obedrence,  and  chys  Chrill
ie.
to  pared  obedrence,  thus  the  regenerate  fulfil  it  in
Chriſi  bee
bei
and  they  complete  mbrm,Coleſſ.  2.1  0.
ouſneſſe,1.(  o7.1.30.
thug  Z  achbarre  and  Elizabeth  are  (aid
inchoate  obedie
towilirin  all  the  comman
mmandements  of  the  Lord,  withoutteproofe,
Lake  1.6,  And  thugsallthe  faithful  fulfil  wendy  in  labooring
Flr
Law  10
God  in  allibe  Commandements  z  ac
received  :  and  thus  wee  arefaid  to  |
the
ing  the  will  for  the  deed.  Wee  are  further
this
od
to9conlider,  that  fulfilling  of  the  Law  is  ſometime
poſed  to  rhe
trapſgreſhon  of  the  Law,as  [ames  2.10,  in  which  fenſe  no  man  cuer
50  did,
or  can  fulfill  it,cxcept  Chrilt,God  and  man,  who  for  this  caule
is  aid  to  bee  the  ende  of  the  law  fur  righteonſneſſe,  to  encyy  one  that  be-
leeneth,Romanes  10,4.  Sometime  itis  oppoſed  to  hy
iGe,  and
diſimulation,  as  1.70hn  2:  4,5.  and  thus  all  the  Saints  fulfill  ic,
in
that  they  indeauour  ro  mortifre  their  corruptions,and  in  all  things
(5  to  approove  their  hearts  and  lives  to  God,  in  keepin  faith  and  a
good  conſcience.  1n  which  ſenſe,  Pa»/  heere  biddeth  vsto  fulfill
the  Law  of  Chriſt,  io  performing  duties  of  loue,and  bearing
one
anothers  burthens.  It  will  be  ſaid,  if  the  law  can  no  otherwiſe  bee
fulfilled,  then  by  inchoate  obedience  ,  towhatend  ſerueth  it  ?  Anſw.
estoreſtrai
(-|t  hath  a  threefold
vſc  even  (incethe  fall.Firſt,it  ſerv
the  outward  man,  by  keeping  men  in  order,  thro
through
the  feare
of  _
puniſhment,of
which  y
«ul  peaketh,  when  heſai  h,thatthe  law
Is
