---
page: 468
pdf_page: 490
sortable_pagination_id: "468"
---
Chap.6.
A  Commentarie
908
468
word  iu  Perg1.  Marks  4.  14,  The  ſower  fawerh  the  word,  And  tb  in
ſondry  other  places-  And  it  is  further  called  the  word
deme,  Mattew  13.19,  becauſe  it  teacherh  what  is  the  kingdome
of  grace,and  glory  :  and  becauſe  it
bgiog  beleeved  or  (asthe  Apo.
Hebr.  4-2.   Hleſpeakes)
etng  mingled  with  fath  i  our  hearts,  doth
make
vs
denizens  of  the  kingdome  of  gracein  this  life;  and
v«  tothe  kingdomeof  grace  inthis  lifezand  doth  aduance  vsto  the
kingdome
ot  glory  in  thelifeto  come,  Secondly,  it  is  called  he
word
of  God,  becauſe
he  isthe  authour  of  it,and  oo  creature,
man,
or  Angel,  2.7heff.3.13,  Thirdly,the
word  of  ſaluction,  Attes  11.26,  10
bel  it  ſhewes  the  way  and  meanes
of  attaining  ſalvation,  Laft-
ly,the  word
of  life,  Ates  5.20,  becauſe  it  doeth  not  4=7
ſhew  the
narrow  way,  that  leadeth  to  eterwi/  fey
but  is  init  (elfe  «
linely
word,
and  mightie  im  operation,  Hebr,4,  12.  Foras  the  powerfoll  ward
of  God  in  the  beginving  ,  did  giue  becing  to  things  that  were  x  ,
not;  fo  the  Goſpell  {being  the
of
God
to  ſaluation
to ey
ovethat  belecucth,)  docth  make  new  creatures,
by  the  J—
ſeed  of  the  word,
Make
bim  that  taught  him.)  q.d.  catechiſed  him.  Yet
as  before,
it  muſt  be  taken  generally  for  any  kiodeof  reaching,or  in{truRti-  ,,
on;  for  ſo  theword  isvicd
elſe  where  in  Scripture,
as  Lake  1.4.  AZ,
18.
25.  Romaner  2.18.  1.Cormth/14-19.  10  that  this  ak(#v  =o
no  -
occalionto  ipeake
ot  the  originall,maner,yſe,  and  profit
of
CAtECDIZINE,
Pakidnc  biz  goods]  By  goods  he”  vnderſtandeth  food  raiment,  ;;
lodging,  bookes,  and  other  ecefſaries,  without  the  which  a  Mi-
nilter  of  the  word  cannot  follow  bis  calling
for  Paw!  calleth  theſe
goods,  according  to  the  common  opmivn,  which  fo  iudgeth
of
.  them.
712,19.  Soule,  thou baft  much  good;  Ias4  wy  for  many  yeerer,
Luke  19.  25.  Soune,  remember
that  thou  in  thy  life  tame  receinedf}
thy  38
good  things,
Make  them  partaker  |  That  is,  communicate,  affoard,  givevnto
them  theſe  temporall  things,  ſeeing  they  giueyov  (pirituall.
Of  all
by
goo.{;  ]  Not  ingiuing  all  away  ,  but  imparting  to  their
ſ3
teachers  what  they  (tand  in  need  of,accounting  __  toodeare  ,,
for  them,  The  Papills  vpan  this  ground,  take  tithes  of  all  ,as  the
—  did  in  the  Leviticall  law  :  wbereas  Pax/  (peakes  pothing
tithes.
T  here  are  fovre  principall  duties,  which  the  people  are  to  per-
forme  to  then  Paſtour,  three  of  them  are  recorded  clſewherein  4
1.Thefl.
;.1  3.
Scripture.
The  rt  is,to  hcare  them  as  Emballadours  ſent  ot  God,
Hebr.13.17-
with  reverence.  I  be  ſecond  is,to  obey  chem,&ſubmit  themlclues
1.Thefl.5.1;
ki
v0
