---
page: 47
pdf_page: 69
sortable_pagination_id: "47"
---
Ws
Vu  pg
Tz
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.r.
vell,and  bytruth
we  aremade  conformable  to  God,whoistruth  it
felfe.  Thirdly,  weare  ſan  ified  by  the  word  oftrutb,7ob.  17.  17.and
guided  by  the  ſpirit
of  truth:  and  therefore  we  are  to  dere(t  lying,
and  deceit.  Fourthly,truth  is  a  fruit  of  Godsfpirit,Ga/.5.8  a  ek
of  Gods  child,P  ſal.  32.v.2.he  hath  the  pardon  of  his  (finnes  i  whoſe
ſpirit  ther  is  nogrulezand  Pſal,1  5.2.  be  ſhall  reſt  in  the  mountaine  of  God,
who  [peakes
the  truth  from  bis  heart,  Laltly,  defiruRtionisthe  liersre-
ward,  Plal.s.6.  God  will
them  that  ſpeaks  hies  :  and  they  mult
have  their  portion  inthe
that  burnes  with  fire  and  brimliton,
10  Kewelation  22.15.
Thus  much
of  the  anſwer  to  the  obieRion-:  now  followes  the
confirmation  by  oath{before
God.)  Here  it  may  be  demanded,
how
theſe  wordscan  bee  a  forme  of  ſwearing  ?  A»ſwer,  Inanocaththere
be  foure  things.  The  firſt  is,»  Afſeverationsf  the  eruth,  Theſecond
15  is,  Confeſſion,  whereby  the  partie  that  is  to  ſweare,  acknowledgeth
the  power,preſence,and  wiſdome  of  God,  in  ſearching  the  beart,
andthat  heis  both  witoeſfe  &  Judge  of  all  our  doings.  Thethird
is,  InnocationefGod,that  he  would  bee  a  witneile  with  vs,  andto  vs,
that  we  ſpeake  the  truth,  Thelaft  is,  /wprecation,  that  God  would
beal
to  take  reuengevponvsifwelie,  Now  then,theforme
20
of  an  oath  isa  certain  forme
of  words,  in  which  noe  all.but  ſome  of
the  principall  parts  of  an  oath  are  expreſſed,
and  thereſt  concealed,
and  yet  to  be  vnderſtood.  7erem.4  2.  thereis  the  forme  of an  oath,
The  Lord  lineth,  and  here  onely  confoſſirm  is  expreiſed.  The  forme
of  ſwearing,  /  call  God  ts  witneſſe  10  my  ſoute,
2,  Cor,  1.23.  expreiſeth
25
the  third  part,namely,[nuocation.  T  he  wordes,  Ruth.  2,17,  Toe
Lord  doe  thiu  and  this  nyo  mee,  is  an  Imprecation,  The  common
forme,7he  Lord  thee  belpe  t
leſus  Chrift,  is  partly  praier,  and
partly  imprecation,  And  the  formein  this  placeis  direRly  acon-
ffion,  that  God  is  preſentto  witoeile  and  iudgethe  truth.  Thus
30
commonly  in  all  formes  of  oathes  one  part  is  expretſed,  and  the
reſt  are  infolded.
Here  firſt  welearne,  that  the  formeof  an  oath,  is  to  bee  plaine,
and  direQinthe  Name  of  God,  and  not  indireR,or  obliquezin  the
name  ofthe  creatures,Godsnameconcealed.  And  it  is  the  flat
35
commandement  of  God,  Mar.s  .34.  It  isalledged;that  Pawl,1.Cor.
15-3  1,  {weares  by  his  reioycing
in  Chrift,  |  anſwerzthe  words  of  Pax,
by  my  reveycmg)are  not  an  cathbat  an  obteltation  :  tor  the  meaning
of  his  words  istbis,that  his  ſorrows  and  afflictions  which  he  indu-
40  red  for  Chrift,would  teſtifie(if  they  could  cn
he  died  dai-
ly.  Thus  Moſer  called  heauen  and  carth  to  witnelle,  without  ſ{wea-
ring:  for  in  anoaththe  thing  by  which  he  ſweares,  is  made  not
E  2
onely
