---
page: 448
pdf_page: 470
---
*  A  Commentarie  pon
Chap.5.
wheiber  weconlder  manab{olutely  io  bimlelfe.or  relatively  inre-
ſpe  of  other  creature:,  25thole  glorious  bodies,the  Sun,Moone,.
Starres,we  may  ſay  with  the  Prophet  Dauid,Zerd  what  is  mn,  that
of  man,  that  thou  regardeſt  him?
thou  art  mindefull  of  bum,  or  the  ſonne
P/al.8
'F  olccofeiſarh  himſ.lte  to  be  nothiog,in,of,or  by  bimſclfe;but
by  the  graze  of  Go4({aith  he)  /  am  that  [am,  1.  Cor.t5.10,  Anda.
gaine,  [was  nat  bug  inferyour  to  the  very  chiefe  Apeſtlcs,  althonyh  |  am
nokmg.2.Cor.12  11.The  Apollle  athrmeth  of  cucry  man,  whi
thinke\:h  be  kn  1weib  ſomething,  that  he  knoweth  ng  ore
onyht
ty  10
know,  1.Cor.$.2.a0d  of  manyhat  they  are
puffed  vp  and  know  no-
thing.  1.7:#,5.4.For  a
ſwelling  conccit,aud  emprines,  viually  goe
Together.
Thelgmd  grnenthing  tobe  ooferaeaio  the
marcdaethic
themſclues  ,  to  15
Thaticis  naturall  tor  men  tv  chinketoo  well  of
magnihe  themielu  es  aboue  other:
ia  their  conceits,  and  in  a  man-
ner  to  deifie  themſelues:  and  to  nullifie  others  in  compariſen
of
themſſclues:  and  this  ourrecmming  of  a  mans  ſelfe,  is  a
branch  of
pride.  For
a  man  lookingvpon
himſelfe  through  the  ſpefacles
of  ſe!fe-Joue,  doth  thinke  every  ſmall  giftof  God,  which  be  feeth  26
to  bein  himſc;fe,to  be  farre  greaterchen  io  truth  it  is  :  imagining
mcere  ſh2cowes,  to  be  ſubllances  ,  or  molehills,  to  be  as
bi
as  mountaines,
Four  asa  man  that  is  in  love,  doth  thinke  Ro
miſhes  and  deformitiesin  his  loue,  to  be  ornaments,  whith  make
h\:r  more  beautifull\:So  theſe  _—
arein  love  with  them  25
ſelues,and  dote  vpoiitheir  ownegifts;  iuJgethe
vices  which  the
ſceto  be  in  thevlelues,to  be  vertyes..Symon  AHſrgar  though  awick-
ed  wietch,  alimme  ofthe  Deuill,s  ſorcerer,&c.  yet  had  chis  con-
ceit  of  himſclte,  and  gaueit  out  alſo,  that  be  was  ſome  great  man,
Af.%.g,to  witzhe  great  power  of  Ged;verſe  10.  The  Church  of  La  36
diceazthought  be  warrich  ar  dincreaſed  with  goods  .,and  had  necde
of  me-
thing  :  whereas  ſhe  was  wretched,  and  miſerable,  and  poore,  avd  bimd
ea  naked,  Apoc.z.17.And  (othe  skacler  (trumpet  thought  her  ſclte
Quecne,and  that  ſhe  was  out  of  aft  Pe
nben
ſh:  was  already  Fallen.  epx.13.2,7.  Yeathis  corruption  is  ſo  ;5-
naturalt;that  cucn  the  regeneratetheinſelues,
who  are  to  part  ſan-
Aiked,  aretainted  therewith  :  andg;ncrally,  they  that  bauere-
ceived  greater  gifts  of  knowledge.  ot  fanQifcation,  &c.  are  moſt
rcady  to  ouerweene  their  owtieYifts,cxcept  God  giue  them  grace
to  rclilt  this  temptation
:  fr  keow/edge  pr
ffeth  wp  1.Cor.  8  1.T  he  A  4®
poltles  themſelues  cont
&d  which  of  them  [vould  ſerrre  to  bee  the
greateſt,  Lie  22.24.
Yea
jo  all  ages  there  hgue  becne  ſome  in
the
