---
page: 449
pdf_page: 471
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.6.
the  Church  overweening  themſelues,as  in  Chrilts  time  the  luſti-
Phariſes  :  after  them,  the  Car
or
'  Puritanesr,
who
both  provdly
and_odioullycale  chemlelues_by  that  nam,
thioxing
themlelues  without  finne
:  the  Dexarsfts,
that  th
5  weare  »  Thorchwithour  por
acurinle  che  Joanie,  that
man  cannot  (mne  after  the  lauer  of  regeneration.  The  Pela91an;,
that  the  fe  of
iulf
man
in
thx
world,  hah
no  (ione  in  it  at”
all  :  and  of  Py
heretike,  who  will  be
ſomething  of  himſelfe,
aud  will  haye
(ome  Qlroke  in  bis  feſt  con-
10  verſion,  andrillcoocyrre  Fith  Chriſt  in  the  warke  af  luſfificati-
og.
It  will  be
ſaid,  __  aſcribe  all  the  praiſe  to  God.  A»/.So  did
the  Phariſie,  Zake  18.31.  and  yet  a  wicked  luſtitiary  for  all  that.
is
ariſeth
ndry  cauſes  :
aY\
Ther
affectec
wg  2  -
15  er  place,in  defiring{through  diſcanteptment
of  their
gwne
el
Jelnethemiclges,
and
become
cquall  to  the  higheſt  Maieſty,  ia
is,  the  overmuch  conlidering  the  good  things  we
bauey  as  when  the  Pharilie  conlidered  that  he  gauetithe  of  all  that
20  he  polleſſedthat  he  faſted  twiſe  a  weeke,that  he  was  not  thus  and
thus,as  other  men.  Lake  18.
Thethird  is  Socumontigetenr  flees  nbd  tholifanidc
that  we
ſceto  bein
a:  the  Pharilie  was  putted  vp,  by  compa-
ring  himſelfe
wi
d  with  _
a5
The  fourth  is,  the  falſe  flattering,  and  applauſe  ofmen,  which
ſooth  ys  yp  in  our  bumours,  in
periwading  vsto  betbat  which  in
we  are  not,as  the  people  Hattered  Herod,  when  they  gaue  a
ſhout,and  (aid,7  he  woice  of  Godz-nd
not  of  man,  A.12.22,
z0
Thethird
point  is,  that  chey  which  thus  Querucene
their  gifts,
in  thinking
themidlues  fomewhat  when  they
are  nothing,  doe
-  :  as  thoſe  that  hoe  they  bave  the
wblagcs,
Dn
kaye  but  the  ſhadow  z  7
es  that
Ireame  they  are  Kings  or  Princes,  beipg  intruth
but  baſe  perſons:
35  or  to  vic  the  Prophets  tient  itude,E/ay  29  8.  Like  as  an  kungry  man
Bs  or  papeip  For  be  het  doth  'wdge  hunſelte  to
beths?  which
indeede  be
1s  noche  may  haply
pleale
bimlelfe,
but  he  doeth
bur
Dot,ae
may  FA
——  eaſe
