---
page: 450
pdf_page: 472
---
Chap.6.
A:  Commentarie  pon
leaſc  himſelfe
in  an  erreur  :  for  in  truth  bee  deceiucth  himfelfe
St  imagination  :  the  Apoſtle  /awes  ſaith,  If  avy  min  ſeeme
(ſpecially  to  bimlclte)  12  be  rehbgrous,  and  yet  refraineth  not  hy
rongues,  hee  decererh  bis  owne  hears,  bu  religion  is  Yaine,  Tam,  1.26,
So  likewiſe,  they  that  are  onely  hearers  of  the  word  (and  there.
fore  thioke  that  all  is  well  enough  with  them,though  they  be  not
doctrs  thereof)acceme  their  owne  ſelnesy  lam.1.:2,And  verily  this  cor-
wage  noe?  (4901
ruption  is  ſo  great,  thatas  men  can  be  coutent  to  be  deluded
rawhs,
by  flatterer>,andclawbackes,  which  pleaſe  them  in  their  itching
humours:  ſo  they  willogly
ſuffer  themſelves  to  be  deceived,  even  to.
-  by  thernſelues,
tothe  end  that  they  may  appezre  to  others  to  bee
that  wich  in
eeuth  they  arenot  :
that  ſo  they  may  aduance  and
magai
ves  in  the  accoumpt
of  the  world.
For  as  Alexin-
Tilutarch.in
h—————————  ſouldiers  to  make  andirave
Alexaudro,
behind  tbem
bitres  an
c-Thoes,
of  an  extraordinary.
great-  Is
nelſe;  buge  Ipcarcs,maſke  ſhiclds,bi  \c  beliners;  IBETFOIte  d
_Giants;t
ordinary
allrothe  end  it  m
beſaid  infuture  time,  t
exan1er  war  a
mighty
Monch
indeed:
So  many  there  bez  wbo  (
ſetting
the  faire  (1de  outward
)_make  3
goucly  pariousThenes  in  the  eiesof  men  ;
and  ſo  would  have  0+
ther  tothinke  ofthem  SCOrdIngys  tarre  abouc  their  delert
)  that
poltcrity  might  wdge  them  to  bethat  which  Tadeed  they  are  not  :
and  ſowith  1/ex4ader
in
dectiving
oth
;  wittiogly  deceive
thernſelues.
Which  ſpiritual  guile  of  deceiving  our
ſelves  10  matters  **-
touchivg  our  (alvation,is
molt
dangerous,when  men  deludether-
ſciges,ip  periwading  themſclues  fafliy.chatthey  know  ſuthcigatly
that  God  15  to  be  loucd  abouc  all,  ourneighbour  as  our  felues,
(  »bicbis  as  mucb  asal  the  preachers  inthe  earth  can  (ay:)thatthey
belceue;wheu  io  ſtead  ot  faith,  there  is  nothivg
but  damaable  pride  3
and  preſumption\:that  they  regent,abenit  2ooching  but
decxithv
counterfeiting,  _and  hypocrivye.  Befides
the  danger,  con(ider  the
iodignity  of  itz:  men  canabidenot
are  deluders  &
by  others,  andyet,behold,they
and  circumvented
deceiversof  themſelues\:and  that  which  doth  more  aggravate  the  35
as  ought  to  be  beſt  known  and  moſt
zodignity  ofivin  ſuch  things  »
amiliar  vato
them,  whercin  it  is  a  fon
ed,
=  —
maruaile  therefore  is4t,  that  men  ſhould  be  deceived  by  theſedu-
ccr  of  all  ſeducers,  the  diuell,
'  who  arefo  calily  deceived  of  them-
lelucs,orrather  willig
to  deceive  thenſclucs?
Furthes
