---
page: 473
pdf_page: 495
sortable_pagination_id: "473"
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.6.
473
neth  not,thatthe  miniſter  ought  co  live  by  thelabour  of  hishands:
for  firlt,  himſelfe  received  a  contribution  ofthe  Philippians,  »hen
-he  was  abſent  from  them,Phbibp  .4.46  hn  [  was  in  Theſſalomica,ye
ſent  oncezand  afterward  agame  for  my  neceſſicie.  T  herefore  if  Paw!  re-
5  ccivedexhibition  from  other  Churches,  where  he  did  not]
itis
Jawfull
for  the  Miniſters  to  receive  of  thoſe  whom  =  doe
ioftruQ.  Secondly.con(ider  the  reaſons  why  Paw!  wou  d  not  take
wages  of  the  Church  of  Coriath,and  ſome  others.  1,leit  he  ſhould
be  a  burden  votothem.  2.7beſ.  3.8.  We  wrought  wth  labour  and  tra-
10  #-T,day  4
thecanſe
we  wonld  not  be  chargeable  to  any  of  you.  2.Cor,
11.9.  [n  all  things  1  kept  and  will  keepe  ny  [elfe,that  1  ſhould
not  be  grie-
our  nee  you.  |
I,  That  bee  might  giue  aprelident
or
thers  totread  in  bis  ſteppes.  2.7heſſ.  3.  9  Nor  but  rhat  we  had  authori-
fie,  but  that  wee  might  make  or  ſelnes  an  example  to  them  to  follow  vs.
15  11  1,  Thathe  might  manifeſt  what  his  end  w
io  teaching
the  _
Golpel,nor
toſceke  himldlie
Cor.
MI.  1  4.  1  ſeeks  not  yourr,out
you.  And  verle  19.  dee  ill  thimgs  for  your
edification,  P  bilip,  4.17,Not  that  I  deſire
gift,  but  the  frunt
which  may
further  your  reckoning,  1  V.  T  hat  bemight  confound  the  falſe  Apo-
26  (Hes  which  taught  not  freely,but  received  wages  for  the!
|  whereas  hereceiued
none  :
cr
ſhould
ſl-nder  him  and  his
miniſtery,if  be  ſhould  receive  wages  \:that  bedid  it  for  filthy  lucre,
2.Cor.11.  12.  But  what  ]  doe  that
will  [
doe  that  |  may  cut  away  occaſion
fromtbem  which  deſire  occ  1ifion,  that  they  might  be  found  like  onto  1/1  in
15  that  wherein  they  reroyee,  Therefore  Pax:  exarple  is  atogerher  im-
inencand  prooucs  nothing.  For  tu{t,be
himlclfe
tooke  wages;
cond!  —_—
it,  it  was  vpon  ſpeciall  conſideration  :
t  allo  commandthathe
Mini-
+  thirdly,hedid
got  onely
permit,by
ters  (hould
be  maintained.
011,  Obicit,  Uathew  10  8  Freely  ye  hane  receined;freely  gine\:there-
fore  as  it  was  valawlull  tor  the
Apoltles  to  take  any  reward  for
their  labour,
ſois  it  tor
preachers  at  this  day,  Anſw.  Firlt;this  text  is
ſpecially  to  bee  voderitood  of  the  extraordinary  gift  of  working
micacles,  which  Chri(t  having  freely  beſtowed  vpon  them,  bee
25  would  haue  them  to  vſefreely,ootſecking  thereby  to  enrich  them-
ſelues  by  exating  or  =—_  any  thing,or  to  winne  reputation  and
glory  among  men.  Secondly,  if  wee  vaderſtand  it  of  the  whole  mi-
niltery,as  wellot  preachingzas  of  working  miracles,it  is  to  be  taken
as  a  precept  torbidding
onely  filthy  lucre,  that  they  ſhould  not
40  make  merchandize  of  the  word  of  God,  ſet\:ingit  to  ſale,  in  prea-
ching  the  word  with  purpoſe  to  benetit  themlclues,
to  feede  their
,vr  40  get  anameand  reputation  inthe  worldwhich  _
cn
