---
page: 474
pdf_page: 496
sortable_pagination_id: "474"
---
Chap.6.
A  Commentarie  pon
biddea  in  other  places,
as  1.75m.3.3.  7.1.7,  but  for  theglory
of
God,  the  diſcharge  of  their  duties,  avd  the  {aluation  of  their  hea-
rers.Great  reaſon  there  is  of  this  precept.  Firſt,  becauſe  the  graces
of  God  exhibited  vato  vs  inthe  preaching  ofthe  +
word,
are  fo
pretious,that
they  cannot  bevalued  at  any  price,all
ings
a  man can  delire,are  pot  to  ——  =  to'
aith;therefore  Peter  [aid  to.Sumen
Magus,Thy  A  with  thee,
becauſe  thow  thinkeſt  that  the  gift  of  God  may  be  obtamned
28.  2.Becauſcitis  not  in  mans  power  to  el
hem,ſcei
Lord  euer  them,  but  ſteward  and  diſpenſer  of
them,  1.Cor.4.  1.  19
3.Becauſethat  whic
iven  treely,  ought
not  to  be
ſold
baſcly
ſeeing
by  that  meanes,  -  =7  made  ſaleable,  which
God
|  have
free,which  kind  of  inerchandizeis  vſedin  the
of  Romeat  this  day,  inthcir  [adulgence+,  wherein  they  ſell  par-
at
dons  for  remiſlion  of  (innes,and  (er  even  heawen  it  ſelfe  to  fale,for  15
a  (mall  {i  neof  money.T  hirdly,this  text  mult  ſo  be  expounded
as
that  it  croiſe  not  other  precepts  in  this  commiſſion,  and  that
Chriſt  be  not  contrary  to  himſelfe,  which  he  thould  be;  if  it  were
volawfall  tor  preachers  to  take  any  thiog  for  their  paines:  for  inthe
10.verſe  he  faith,  The  workemanis  worthy  of  his  me-te  :  therefore  hee  10
may  receiueit  :  and  verſe  1  1.he  enioynes  them  to  enquire  in  every
towne  wherethey  came,wha  is  worthy  ,aud  there  ab14e.  T
herefore
they  were  not  vtterly  barred  from  takiag  all  necc(laries,  for  they
might  take  their  lodgingztheir  tood,theirraiment,  with  this  they
were  to  bee  content,  and  more  then  this  they  might  not  take,  ?5
though
it  were  offered  them,or  forced  ypon  them.  Thus  Ele:
ed  the  gitt  offered  him  by  Names,  for  curing  his  leaprolie,
le(t  Gods  gifts  ſhould  be
made  a
gaine,  orleſt  that  which  was  gi-
uen  to  (et  torth  Gods  glory  matters,  ſhould  be  an  occaſion  of
ſatisfying  mens  greedy  delires.
z0
a  «
IV.  Obieft.  Math.  10  9.  The  Apoſtles  are  forbidden  by  Chriſt,
to  polle(ſe  gold,or  (iluer,&c.  Anſw.We  may  not  preciſe!
letter  ofthe  text,for  ſo  we  (hall  make  the  Apottles  prattiſe  con
to  Chrills  precept:  and  ſo  he  ſhould  condemnehinfelfe;t
=  i
his  bagge,  which  /«dz:  bare.
He  had  belides  his  v
arment,  35
Tobn  1  3.4.and  coate  without  ſeame,  /obn  19.23,  Luke  22.  36,Peter
bad  ſandalls,A.1  2.  Pax  badacloake,  2.7im  4  Yea  Chrilt  after-
wards  ſaith  vnto  them,B
xt  now  hee  thit  hth  a  baggelet  him  take  ty
and  likewiſe  a  fwigge  ot  SocomBygh  was  a  temporary
precept.gl
'y
precept,g1uen
iQ
them  in  commillion  onely  for  that  przſcaty  and  their  going  with-  40
out  gold,filuer,a
{crip,  twocoates,  thooes,  a  (taffe,  ſignifigg,  that  _
they  ſhould  goe  in  haſte,  committing  themſclues  wholly  to
th
—_—_
proul»
