---
page: 475
pdf_page: 497
sortable_pagination_id: "475"
---
Chap.6.
Galatians.
the  Epiſtle  to  the
dence  of  pres;  ng  epevalline  orvicvale  which  is  fg-
Rs
\:norofc
TE  ——  |
===  p
defendiog  a9
(oocoute  ore
by
id
tneaanc,  _
5»  Vſe.  Herewe  ſee  that  there  aretwo  ſortsofmenio  the  Church,
ſometeacbers,others  to
called  in  ſcripture  teachers  and
frarers.
Theground  of  thisdiſtin  Aion,  is  taken  from  the  good
vre
of
God,
who  hath  ordained  that  man  ſhould  be  taught
y  becauſe  of  maps  weakenelſe,  whocould  not  en-
40
dure  the  glory  and  maieſly
of  God,  ſpeaking  voto  him\:partly,that
pothing
rightbe  aſcribedto  theexcellency  of  theialtrument,  in
theconuerion
of  men;  but  that  God  might  have  all  the  glory
of  it,  as  the  Ap
es,  2.  Corinthian},  4.7.  We  bane  thes
ere  earthen  veſſels,  that  the  excellency
of  that  power might  be  of
15  God,  and
not  of
man.  |
There  is  ſet  downe,  Dent.5.verſe
23,  &C.
avotable
dfortheioſticutionatthe  holy  miniflery
by  man,  _
SS  er  ep
vaiceſrom  beiuen.  And  it  wasoncot
the
teach  vs,  chat  itis  for our  good,
that  be
doth  not  ioltrutvs  with
0  his  owne  lively  voice\:from  beauen,  aod  ſpeakevnto  vs  in  his
-——
gwneperſos\:andthatthereforeweſho
delirous  _
rathes  tobe  taught  by-man.  Forwhen  the  people  delired
that  they
mig  ht
not
beare
the  voice  of  the  Lord  any  more,  butthat  Afe-
+  mighstpeake  voto
them,  -T  he  Lord  an{wered,
They  bave  dove
is  well  ro  [ay  (0,
1  will  raiſe  them  up  «  Prophet  from  among  their  bretbyen
Aabrbie  II
ke  mouth,  wet  Thall  peake
uato  chews
all  that  ſeommandbim.  Dent.  18.  verſes  17.18,  T  biscrol-
\  the'
ty.
of
thoſe,
who  not  contentiog  themfielues
with
deword
of  God  delivered  by  the  mnittery
of  man,  delire
th:
16  God  would  ſpeake  yoto  them  with  his  owne  mouth
from
hea-
in.
For  the  |  ſraclites  found  it  by  expericnce,thatit
was  a  feare-
vg;
tullof  hocrourand
thivg,
they
delire  they  ay  beare  11  no  more
ore,  left  they  dies
Anabaptiltsobiethatvnder  the  N.T,,  Ter.3  1.34.
Dent.  »  &ver/e  16,  Bot  the
34
_—_—  ——
15  all  ſoall  —_—  of  God.  {ob.6.verſe  4.5.  and  they  ſpall  not  teach  every  Heb,8.13.
wan  his  neighbour,  and  euery  man  bis  brother,  ſaying,  Know  the  Lord.
Therefore  the  publike  miniftery  is  now  needletle.  Avſ.T  he  words
mult  not  be  vaderſIgad  limply,butcomperatively,
and
regreater  knowledge  vo-_
«  Comparannely,  that  ME
{[a.11  9.1  he  A-
He  opens  Tettameo
poMlefaith  nor,that  there  ſhal  be  no  teaching  at  al  (for  Chill  bath:
giue  ſome  to  be  Prophets,others  Paſtors  &  techers,for  the  en
