---
page: 477
pdf_page: 499
sortable_pagination_id: "477"
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.6.
477
ward  gigen  by  divine  inſpiratios.  lt  becing  not  onely  the  ſeede  b
which  we  are  begotten  and  borne  anew,  but  the  foode  by  whic
weare  nouriſhed  :  both  milke  for  the  babe,that  is,a  novice  in  rcli-
gion,  and  ſtrong  meate  for  him  that  is  of  yeares:  and  therefore
;  being  perfeR  nouriſhment,the  bread  of  life  for  him  that  is  huogey,
andthe
water  of  litefor  him  that  is  thirſty,  what  needes  there  any
more  ?  Beſides  no-word  nor  writing
hath  the  property  of  fire  ſave
onely  the  word
of  God,  to  diſpell  the  darkeneſſe
of  ignorance  by
ealightening  the  minde  with  the  ſaving  knowledge  of  the  truth,
19  rw  aw.  yea  to  "+  the  affection  with  a  zeale  of  Gods
raing  vpthe
corruption  of  nature.  Againe  Divinity
is
oy  br  ag  liberall  arts,  tongues,  biſtories,  &.  are  bot  hand-
waids  to  attend  vpoa  ber:  now  when  the  miltris  is  ſpeaking,it  is
good  manners  for the  maide
to  bold  her
.Tothisword  alone
15  the  Prophets  weretyed  by  their  commiſlion  :  bar  /  hall  command
thee,  that  ſoalt  thow  ſay.  Andthe  Apoltles,  Ton  ſhell  teach  what  I  bane
commanded  you.  Chrilt  himſelfe  taught  nothing  bat  that  which  hee
bad  heard  and  receiued
of  his  Father.  7ob  8.28.  Pav/deliuers  no-
thing  but  that  which  he  received  of  Chriſt,  1,  Cormrbs,  31.23.2406
10  cting  butthat  which  1ofe:  and  the  Prophets  had  writ-
ten,  A.  26,22.  au/commands  Timerbie  to  _
the  Paltours  of  :.Tim.r.z,
Epheſus,  cbar  they  teach  no  diver:  dottrine;  either
for  matter  or  man.  ©
nes
ver;for  ſubſtance  or  circumltance,  Yet  here  we  muſt  take  heede  of  Nec  aliud,  v:
extremities.for  in  ſome  caſes  it  is  lawtull  in  preaching  to
ſe
Phila.
Bera,  nec  ali«
ts  lhy,the  teſtimony  ofprophane  writers,  and  quotations
of  the  *©>"*  vvl$+
editio,
©,  When  we  havetodeale  with  heathen  men(who  will  not  bee
ſo
mooued  with  the  authority  of  the  Scriptures)
wee  may  ___
convict  them»
by  the  teſlimony  of  their  owne  writers,  as  Paa/
jo  dT  the  Athenians,
Epicures,  and  Sroikes,  by  the  teſtimo-
nie  of  eAratws,  Aer  17.  28,  and  the  Grecians  by  theteſtimo-
py  of  Epimenides,Tit.1.  23.
LI.
Io  preaching  to  a  mixt  congregation,  where  ſome  arc  it  _
feed  with  Poperie,  or  ſome  other  herei1e,and  will  pot  receiverhe.
nor  yeeld  v
dorine  delivered,
;5
conſent  of
the  Fachereof  tha  Church.
7  FI
"TIT.  In  handling  of  ſome  controverſall  poiot  of  diuinitie,ſhew-
ing,  that  the  doArine  weteach  is  no  new  doQtrine,  but  that  which
wastaught  io  the  Primitive  Church,  elpeielly  in  ſpeaking  tothe
{weakezwho  baue  aot  as  yet  lett  their
old  ſupert?i
tion  wherein  they
——  ———
were  nyzzeled.  _
lV..  Tocut  off  the  calumniations  of  the  malicious  —_—
who
