---
page: 479
pdf_page: 501
sortable_pagination_id: "479"
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians,
Chap.  479:
would  not  have  his  mouth  muzled,ſhould  threſh  out  the  corne\:he
that  would  drinkeof  the  wine,  ſhould  plant  the  grape:  heethat
lookes  for  milke  ,  ſhould  feedethe  flocke:  that  is,  bee  that  will
live  ofthe  Goſpel,  ſhould  teach  the  Goſpel.  [tis  a  maxime  not  only
5  ofthe  C\:nonl\:w,  but  grounded  vatothelaw  of
nature,  that  benefics-
uw  poſtnlat  officium  ,  a  benefite  requireth  «
duty;or  more  plainely,"  a
be-
Ine  wo.  err  diligencein  theoffice,  T  bey
therefore
are
not
{0  much
for
the
feeding  ofthe
ſheep«
$)
41
ling  ofcthemſcl
ges,and  fearenat  ſa  much  the  loil>  of  the  lucke,as   _
the  lolſe  of  the  fleece,doe  nor  onely  violate
the law  of  God,  but
even
the law  of  nations,
and  the law  of  pature.
©  Againe  9  +>  20%  thoſe
that  Tabour  in  the  word  and
doctrine,  mayla
———_—_  albeit  they  haue  ſufficient  of
their  owneto  maintainet
wes:  itis  the  very  equitie  of  this
15  text.  For  ifthey  that  are  inſtracedin  the  word,  are  to  make  thoſe
thatialtrued  them,  partakers  of  their  goods\:then  itis  lawful  for
them  which  inſtruR  and  teach,  to  receive  ſomething  in  recom-
e  of  their  labour,ſecing  that  the  labourer  ©  worthy  of  bis  wages,
etthis  one  caveat  mult  be  remembred,thatifrecciving
of  wages
40  bea
binderance  to  the  Goſpell(asit
would  have
beenein  Panl)itis  =»
potlawſull\:for
we  may not  ſo  vie  ourliberti
hinder  the
cou
cae
olpell.
We  may  here  further  perceive
the  greate  want  of  devotion
.  /
which  isin  moſt  men  of  theſe  daies.  For  asthecry  of  the
poore
in
35  the  ſtreetes,  and  at  our  doores,  is  an  argument  that  there  is  no
mercie,no  bowels  of
pittie  and  compallion\:So,in  ————  —
———_
many  need
re  wandrio
hich  would
aodriog  T.cuites,  which  would  gladly  feruc
for  a  morſe  of  bread,or  a  ute  ofraiment,  it  is  a  pregnant  proote
there  is  very  ſmall  deuotion  in  men  for  the  maintenance  of  religi«
zo
0nza{pecially  in  thoſe  which  are
ſo  (traight
laced,and  ſhort  ſlecucd
in  beltowiog
any  thing  forthe  goodof  the  Mioiltery,  and  yet  in
der
hounds  and  hawkes,aod  worſe  matters,in  maintaining
ers,ie{ters.tooles,and
{uchlike,arevery  Iaviſh  and
profuſe,  to  _
eir  great col}.  T  his  bath  becne  the  praQile  of  che
and  the
35  coatemptible  ellate  of  the  Miniſterie  in  former  times.  Foure  hun-
dred  falſe  Prophets  wererichly  provided  for  at  le=4be/:  table,  1.
King,18,19,
whereas  the  true  Prophets
of  God  inthe  meane
time  were  taine  to  hide  their  heads, having  ſcarce  bread  and  water
and  that  not  without  danger.  Well,  her  praQtife
hal  JT
condemne.  -
4  number  of  profe(ſours;vay;our  forefathers  zcale  and
torwardars,
(notwith(tanding
they  lived  io  blindneſſe)  ſhall!  coodemneour
caldneile  ,  io  this  bebalfe\:what  ſpeak  e  I  of  our  forefathers?  _  Pep
py
—_—
—_—_
the
