---
page: 459
pdf_page: 481
---
the  Bpiftle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.6.
mid(}
ward:
ficiall  ,from
:  whereaga
man may  haucthe  otber  ,-  and  yet  inthe
icons
heart  will  DELOTIAY
-midt  of  mirth  11s
this
1s  Dern  ment  and
the  otherzran{itc  ieand  fading.
ioy  in  harvel!,
juripg.
Iris  like
the
zich.they--haue
;  Pſal
E/a.9  3  therfore
dipide
a  ſpoyle.
7.296
that
Selewon  ſaith  jitis  4
commurl{feaft.  Pros  15:15.  and  Peter  calls  it
glories  Let.  8.
puſdeaboe2l;y  ne
up
111.  T  his
ſhewes  that  there  is  much  falſe  ioy  in  the  world,con-
fiſting  wholly  in  bonours,  profits,  pleaſures:  none  of  which  bave
q  their  groundin  a  mans  (elfe:  and  therefore  being  out  of  a  mans
ſelfe,  they  are  not  true  and  durable,  but  falſe  and  vaniſhing  ioyes.
Now  thoſe  which  have  no  comfort  but  out  of  themfclues,  are  of
foure  ſorts.  Firſt,  ſuch  as  reioyce,  and  glory  ivthe  opinion  that  the
world  bath  of
then,  we  notin
chet  \MORY  of  their  owne  con-
ſcience.  Secondly
,luch  as  reioyce,pot  ip  their  reconciliation  with
x  God,but  in  cheirblamel  wm
0  that  they
have  not  bin
-e0  offenders,  or  men  of
(c
life.  £44.18.  11.  Thirdly,
(bas  reioyce  in  the  vertuesoftheir  anceſtors  ,as  the  lewes  brag-  _
ed  they  were  theſcedof  Abraham.  Toh  Þ  ;3.which  vainegloryiog
40  _—  vertues,lobn  B.prift  reprouveth,when  he  ſairh,  Thinke
wt  to  ſay  with  your  ſelnes
we  bane  Abraham
for  onr  father,  Cc.  Mas;
9.Fourthly
ſuch  as  rejioyceand  thinke  ther:  {
ty  fee  others  w
:  this  isrighethe
Pharilies  ioy,0  God,/  thanks  thee,  Tim  wot  thus  and  thus,  or  fhe  this
4  Pubhcan,  Lake  18.11.  Thisis  it  which  che  Apolllediredly  aimeth
at  iothis  place  :  when  men  thinke  therſclues
ivft,:  becaule  others  -
more  wretched
then  themſclues  :  and  pure,  becauſe
oth
maredehied,  Wheromorher  mens  hainous  loves  ſhalloot  jullife
anTour  leſſer  (lanes,  ſour
vs
onely  as  lerulalem  wuſtifed
her  (ifters,
w.S0Jom,and
Saraaria,Ex\:cb.15  5t.  Butioa  man  may  bee  ipſtified,
adTyet  condemned.  |
m_
5.  For  exery  one  (hall  bear  bis  owne  burden.
13.  Here  Paul  layes  Cowne  aſecond  reaſan  of  his  allertion,  in  the
former  yerſe,  why  every  man  ought  to  proove.  his.  owne  worke,
rather  then  to  be  curious  in  ſearching  into  the  lives,  and  skannivg
the  ations  of  other  men;  becauſe  every  wan  ral  beare  bis  owne  by  re
dn,  which  is  all  one  with  that,  Gal  5.10.10  beare  a
mans  owve  tndlge-
4  went:  and  that  Rom.  14.  12.  10  give
an  acconnt  toGod
for  himſelfe.  It  1s  a
proverbiall  ſpeech.
the  meaning  whereof  is  expreſſed  by  the  like,
ler.31.30..  Every  mas  tht  eatetb  the  ſowre  grape,  bus  teeth  ſhall  bee  ſet
La
