---
page: 460
pdf_page: 482
---
460
ws
A  comment  arie  ou
na  ra  ogag
.  And  by  that  which  is  common
Al
when  hug  owne  bottomne  :
that
niflevent  of  kisowne  (in,  For  ee
every
wwe  =  guilt  and  puniſhment
of  his  owne  finne,  be  ought  more
narrowly
to  looke  to  bimſelfe  then  to  others,  andto  bea  moreſe,  In
cenſurerofhimſelfe,then
of
another.  *
ers  |
is
Oueveninn  pe"  og  n=  Three
ſorts  of  burdens.
ſhal  beare
bi  wth
reg
uiDg  an  account
to
eucry  man
onus  infirmi-  burden,  Fr
envy
marmaſt
ry  Ha  4
tatis  partici-
padz.Auguſt,  14.12,
"  The
ond  i
contra  ſcript,  which  Paul
bearing  goe
anther
mav  is  got
octoberis
Peril.  lib.  z.
owneberden:  bar
every
man
his  brothers.  For  t
pete  61>  crſſe  the  opinion  of
thoſe  which  though
mas  coo
ounce
=  Naih  Fury  wn  ba/Few  bs
With  other  mens  (1nnes,,
Hugo  .
locum.
de  S.Viea
to  meet
wi
leſneſle  of  others,  whc
Gal.quzit.;8  7
ves  —
the  good  of
their  brethren:
17M
rare  ye  one  anot
"Rae
11,  Obiet.  By  bearing
of  our  owne  burdens,  is  vnderſiood
giving  an  account  for  our
vnto  God,  te.  Eton
to  give  account  for  himſelfe  alone,  but for  thoſe  alſo  that  arecom-
the  father  for  hischilde,
the  maſler  for
his  3
AG
te  for  the  ſubie,the
forthe  ſheepe,
eruant,the
magi
ſhepbeard
Exec,  Etc  lea  nitFrepatoaddy  band  Hebr.13.  bY.  The
oner  your  ſoules,  PC  pra:  <_409h  20  ana
ſuperioursare  not  to
giue  account
for  th
bt
£125"  hes  ror  forghe  face  wi
9.  If
meſh  rhe  wicked  of  ne  way,  hee  foal!  die  for  bis
iniquitie,
requireat  thyband,  Newer
|  panda
ES  x  bu  way  jo
turne  fr  om it if  bee  doe not  twrne  from  bug  way bee  ſoall
dic  for  bus  imguntie,
Rs
—  ol
IT,
