---
page: 483
pdf_page: 505
sortable_pagination_id: "483"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.6.
things  commeth  the  wrath  of  God  von  the  children  of  diſobedience.
Againe  hencel  gather,  thatin  the  prime  of  the  Church,  in  the
Apolllesdaies,  when  the  Church  ofthe  New  Tellament  was  but
in  founding,the  Miniſlery  wasio  contempt\:and(as  it  may  appeate
5  out  of  other  places)
the  Miniſters  were  not  onely  neglected,  or
contemned;but  reuiled,perſecuted,  accounted  as  the  filth  of  the
world.and  theoff+kouring  of  allthings,  1.  Cor.4.  r3.0r  wherethey
were  better  intreated,they  were  but  abuſed;ſcorned,reputed  brain-
licke  fellowes:  as  the  Prophet  was,2,
Kmg.9.11.and  Par,  AF.26,
to  24.  This  hath  beene,  and  is  the  account  which  the  world  maketh
of  the  Miniſters
of  God,  which  mult  beeſo  farre  from  diſcoura-
ging  vs,  thaticlhould  minilter  rather  matter  of  ioy  vnto  vs,  in
that  we  are  conformable  by  this  meanes  to  Chriit  our  head,  who
waz  not  onely  negleRed  of  all,not  having  wheretore(t  his  head,
15  Zak,9.58.but  laughed  roſkorne,  accounted  a  pot-companion,  a
drunkard,and  a  glutton,aforcerer,  one  that  had  a  diuell.and  was
madde,/ob.10.20,For,
if  we  ſuffer  with  him,  we  ſhall  be  glorified  with
bim.Rom.  8,17.
Thus  muchof  thedehortation:  thereaſon  followesto  bee  con-
"26  ſidered  in  theſecond  place  ,in  theſe  words,Go4  15  not  mocked,  where
.  the  Apoltle  (hewes  that  their  excuſes  as  but  ia  vaine,  becauſe  God
is  not  mocked,  nor  will  be  deluded  wjth  ſuch  pretences.
Firlt  herethe  Apoſtles  dealing  is  worthy  to  beobſerued,in  that,
oouing  them  which  neglected  their  duty  to  the  Minilters
25
oſtheword,  hebringethin  God  bimſelte  taking  the  matter  into
bis  owne  hand,makiog  the  Miniſters  quarrell,his  own  quarre!l:  &
this  he  doth,  totheend  we  might  {ce  whom  we  haue  to  deale
withall,%&  whom  wedoe  abuſe,when  we  abuſe  the  Miniſters  of  the
word;to  wit,that  weabuſe  not  man,but  God.  Foralbeit  it  bee  true
30  of  alland  eyery  (inne,which  Dewdconfeileth  of  bis  owne  particy-
Tar  murther  andadultery,  that  it  is
againſt  God,  yea  againſt  bun  2/oxe,
Pal.  51.4.  yet  in  chels  and  ſuch  like  caſes  which  tend_to  the
vnadermining  of  his  Church,and  thedecay  othis  religion  &  wor-
ſhip,hee  taketh  bimſeltemore  direly  aimed  at,  &  more  nearcly.
35  touched.  Whea  the  |iraclites  refuſed  to  haue  Sawve/  and  his  ſons
torule  over  them,the  Lord  ſaith,  They  hawe  not  caſt  thee  away  ,  b\:t
they  Fane  caſt  me  away,  that  I  (pould  not  reigne  oner  them,  1,Sam.  B,
7.  \When  the  Levites  were  defrauded  of
their  due,  the  Lord  by  bis
Prophet  teileth  the  people,  To  haze  (pailed  me  intithes  and  offering  f,
40  14/.3.8.50,in  this  place,whcn  the  Galatians  did  wrongfully  with
hold  aod  keepe  backe  that  com  etent  allowance.that  was  duc  to
their  teachersbe  telleth  the  that  it  was  a  lin  tending  againlt  God,
Ii  z
who
