---
page: 486
pdf_page: 508
sortable_pagination_id: "486"
---
Chap.6.
A  Commentarie  pon
———
Goſpell,  to  mans  eltate.Ga/.441-8&c,  Againe,itmay  beſaidthe  bus.
bandman  ſoweth  net  the  bodge  that  ſpall  be,1.Cor.  15:27  theretore
he  reapeth  not  that  which  he  ſawed«Av»/;  Hereaperh  not  the  lame  5}
jodividually,  but yet  theſame  ſpeciall  bodie,  it  may  turther  bee
doubted  ot  thetruth  of  that  whichis  (ignified  by  this:  proverbial
ſentence,namely,whether  every  man  ſhall  reccjue  according  to  his
workes,for  ſo  every  man  ſhould  be  condemned.  To  whichhat
ſwer,that  it  isnot  vniuerſally  true,  forsftherrghtears  comment  inightty  #2
all  bu  right  eonſnes  ſoall  be  no  more  rewembred\:and
of  a
wicked  wan  tug
from  bis  ſine,  noze  of  his  ſinnes  that  he  bath  committed  ſhall  be  mentored
vnto  bim,  Ezecke.  33.13.16,1t  mult  therefore  be  reſtrainedthus;He
that  doth  wickedly  ,  and  perſevercth  therein  to  the  end  :  Hethat
doth  well,and  continucth  ip  his  well  doing,ſhalreceive  accordibg  **
to  his  workes;the  ſeedes  of  bis  former  (inves,  ſhall  not
growyp.to
the  baruelt  of  condemnation.  Forit  is  the  priviledge,  yeathe  =
Pinelle  of  a  righteous  many{o  to  have  his  (innes  covered  withthe
robes  of  Chrilt  hisrighteouſnes,  as  that  they  ſhall  neucr  beyoco-
uered  to  his  ſhame.  P/al.  32.Eſay,43.25  Againe,  it  may  bee  bence  5?
proovedziathat  ſanRification  in  death;is  perfeRed,  original  cor-
ruption  beeing  vtterly  aboliſhed\:and  therefore  though  the  booke
of  a  regenerate  mansconſcience  bee  openedat  the  day  of  iudge-
ment,yet  nothing  ſhall  be  foupdin  it,  but  his  good  workes,  which  |
follow  him  till  the  reſurreQion,  Apecy14,  1  3.  Belidesthis,in  thelaſt  3?
{cnteoce  pronounced  by  our  Saviour  Chriſt,  Afarrh.25.  only  their
gocd  workes  are  mentioned:  Come  ye  bleſſedof
my  Fatber,  inberit  the
ung  iome  prepared  for  you  ,  for  |  was  bungrie  nd  ye  fedde  me,  &c,  their
!\:pucs  and  imperteRtions,not  ſa  much  as  once  named,  but  concea-
40
1\:d  and  pailed  over,
49
1  I.  05\:ef2.  It  may  beſaid,that  neither  the  good  nor  the  hadde
doe  reape  that  which  they  have  ſuwne:  the  godly  for  the  ay”
of...  Y
