---
page: 488
pdf_page: 510
sortable_pagination_id: "488"
---
488.
Chap.6.
A  Conmentarie  p01
they
alſo  want  thevſe  ofreaſon  :  and  therefore  they  ſhillnot  by
Tgdged  bythe  booke  of  wor  ters
Woe  Mena
to  lay,as  Hugs  de  $.vitt.doth,vpon  the  Rom  gueſt.  5  9.that  they  ſhall
be  condemned
forthe  fnnes  which  their
parents  committed  in
their  conception  and  nativity,  us
h  they  themſelues  had
« 5
Wally  commirted  them  lgnath  Tet
wt  Exck.18.20.tbeSov
ful
nor  beare  the
mi  eb
ther  be
hg  :  *
V.  Obreft;
Buthowſhallt
pronounced
iolt,  who
beeiog
#h4rw7
cone  to  yeares  of
diſcretion,yet
have  no
workeyas
Let
wholioing  leodly  all  his  lifelong  ,
16
and  the  theefe  vponthe
was  converted  at  thelaſt  geſpe?  Av.  That  Lazar»  had  tro  good
workes,  whereby  be  might  be  declared  juſt;  it  cavnot  beproved  :
the  contrary  rather  may  be  Inter  fra  and  that  the
goodtheefe
had  no  good  works,itis  flat  againſt  thetext,  Zak.2
3,
40.41.wherehemaketh
a  notable  confeſſionof  Chriſt,  and  rebu.  x5
keth  his  fellow
to  bring  him  to  the  faith,”  which  was  a
fact  of  Chriltiar  akey.  Secondly,  thovghitwere
graunted  thatthey  bad  no  good  works  in  aRion;yet  they were  full
_  workes  in  affetion,  and  by  theſethey  wereto
be  iudged,
God  accepting
ia  his  children  the  wil  for  the  deed,  Lexrwr  byrex-  10
ſonof  hisextreame
,and  the  theefe  by  reaſon  ofthe  ſhort-
nes  of  time  which  bebed  folivein
the  world,could  nor  be  plenti-
fullin
ito
gipe  ſufficient  teflimoaie
their
—_
_Y
[acceptetha
man  according
to  that  which
1d  not
'o  that  which  be  hath not,  accepting
25
"thewill
for  the  deede,  as  he  acceptedthe
willingnes  of  Abrabaw
toſacrifice  his  ſonve,  asthough  he  had  facrificed  him  indeede,
Gen.22,
VI.  Obie.God  doth  not  proportionate  the  reward  to  thework,
becauſe  he  doth  reward  workes  which  are  finite  and  temporall,  ;4
with  ipfinite  and  eternall  puniſhment.  A»/.  Sinne  beeing  conſide-
redi
RoftheaF,  asitisa  rrinſent  'affion,  is  Enite,  Butina
threefvld
con(ideration,  it  is  infinite.  Firſt;in
reſpe&  of  the  obieRt
aigſt
w  hom  it  is  committed\:for  beeing  the  offenceof  an  infoire
Maielty,  it  doth  deſerve  infinite  puniſhmene\:for  if  he  that  clippes  15
the  Kings  coyne,  or  defaceth  the  Kingsarmes,  or  counterfaiteth
the  broad  ſealeof  England,  orthe  Princes  privy  comer  age  dic
as  atraytour,  becaule  this  diſgrace  tendeth  tothe  perſon  of  the
rince\:much  morcought  hethat  violates
the  law  of  God,  die  the_
c{t  and  ſecond
ing  the  breach  therofdeth  not  only  tend  ")
tothedefacing  of  hisowneimagein  vs,  but  totheperſon  ©  God
imſelfe,  who  in  cuery  ſipneiscontemued,
and  10noured,.Ye-
condly,  4
——
