---
page: 467
pdf_page: 489
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap:6,
467
Eighely,  ſeeing  the  guiltand  puniſhment
of
(innc,
is
ſo  beayi
en,  weareto
ealeand  disburden  our  lelyesthereof,  And  that
we  may  doe  this,we  mult  labourto  feele  the  intollerable  weight
of
it,preſ{10g,and  oppreſling  theconſcience.  Therefore  as  thote  who
*  [|  5  intheir(leepeare  troubled  with  the  E  phialtes
or  mare,  feeling  (as  it
were)a  great  mountaine  lying  vpon  them,&  preſſing  them  down,
would
give  allche  world,the  weight  might  beremooued:  So  wee
feeling  the  weight  and  burden  of  our  linnes,  aretolabour  to  bee
digburdened  and  eaſed  therof:  and  this  we  ſhall  doe  by  our  repen-
0  |  jo  tahce  toward  God,and  faith  in  Chrilt,  Afare,11.28,  Come  unto  mee,
all  ye  that  are  weary,and  laden,and  I  willeaſe  you,
6  Let  hin.  that  is  taught  in  the  word,  make  him  that  hath
taught  him,partaker  of  all  his  goods.
latheſe  wordsthe  ApolHelaieth  downe  an  other  rule,touchiog
the  maintenanceof  the  miniſterie,
and  competencie  of  allow  ance
forthe  Miniſtersof  the  word  :  for  it  ſeemeth  that  the  Mioilterie  a-
mong  the  Galatians,  was  at  that  time  much  negleRedjatlealt,not
|  |  16  forefpeRedas  it  ought,
Io  handling  of  the  rule,  I  will  frft  ſhew  the  meaniog
of  the
words  ;  ſecondly,thereafons  of  therule  :  thirdly,the  obietions
againit  it:  laftly,  the  dove,
and  vies,that  are  tobee  gathered
from  it.
15s  The  meaning,
Let  him  that  u  taught)  The  word  tranſlated  tay  ght,  Cignifeth  wmfwere,
him  that  is  cateched,
or  taught  familiarly  by  word  of  mouth,
or  ligely  voyce,  as  when  children  aretaughtche  firlt  principles
id
of  religion.  But  heere  it  hath  a  larger  (ignification  {  as  Oceume-  nomyvums  ,
to  ww.  bath  well  oblerued  )  for  bim  that  is  any  way  taught  and  in.  ©
flruQed,  whetherit  bee
in  the  firlt  principles  ,  and  rudiments,
or
inpornts  of  greater  dithcultie  z  whether  plainely  and  tamiliacly,
(as  Catechizers  vie  todoe  :  )  or  more  protvundly,  tor  thernllcuti-
on
ot  thelearned,
Tanght  in  the  word]  What  needes  this  addition  (may  ſome  ay)
35
isthere  apy  catechizing  without  the  word  ?  An/w,  I  he  Apoltle
addeth  mw  the  word,  to  (hew  that  hee  meaneth  not  ſomuch  the  do-
Qrine  of  Chriſtian  religion,  contained  in  the  Scriptures,  as  the  do-
Qrinc  of  the  Goſpel,  which  by  aft  exoche,  or  peculiar  exceNency,is
4  called  the  word,  Att.  16.6,  They  were  forbidden  of  the  boly  Cheſt  ropreach
the  word  im  Aſia  :  which  is  expounded,y.  10.  to  bethe  preachipg  of
the  Goſpel,  T  bus  it  is  vicd,  At.  14.2  5,  when  they  had  preached  the
Hh  3
nord
