---
page: 49
pdf_page: 71
sortable_pagination_id: "49"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap.r;
59
as!  anfovers  an  other  obrettrony  which  maybe  famed:
Heere  P
thus:  Though  as!  learned  not  the  Goſpellof  the  Apoſiles
at  le-
ee
CEC
ruſalem,  yet
might
he  baply  learne  it  of  them
in  other  Churches
of  ludea,  Tothis  Fas!  anfwersthree
thiogs.  The  firlt
is,  that  bee
5  went  from  [ernſaleminto
Syria  and  Cilicia,  T  he  ſecond,  that  bee  was
mor
Of
of  Imdea,  but  onely  by  beare  (ay:
and
heſets  downe  the
that  wentof  him.  T  hethirdis,that
the  Churches
of  Iudea  did  not  diſgrace  and  ſlander  him,  but  chey
glorified  God
for  him,  Of  theſe  in  order.  For  the  firſt,  that  Paw/
10  wentfrom  lerulalem  ſtraight
into  Syria,  and  Cilicia,the  regions  of
the  Gentiles,  there  bee  two.cauſes,  One,  becauſe  Paw/  was  ordai-
ned
'to  bethe  Apoſile
of  the  Gentiles,  42.  9  15.  Kew.  1  5.
16,  T  heſecond,becaulſe  Cilicia  was  bisowne  countrey:  for  he  was
bornein  Tarſus,  atowne  in  Cilicia  :  and  his  loue  to  his  countrey,
15  no  doubt,wasgreat.  Forin  thelike  caſe  ,  hee  could  have  wiſhed
bimſelfe  to  be  accurſed
for  hiscountreymen  the  lewes.  From  this
firſt  anſwer  1  gathertwo  things.  Firlt,  if  any  Apollle  aboue  the
reſt,  bethe  Paltour
and  vaiuerſall  Biſhop  of  the  Church  vuer  the
whole  world,  it  is  P««/,  and  not  Peter:  becauſe  he  ſpecially  was  or-
20.  dained  to  teach  and  conuert  the  nations.  T  he  ſecond  i:,that  Pav!s
often  and  dangerovs  iourneys,multteach  vsto  attend  on  our  cal-
liogs  with  care  and  diligence,
and not  to  bee  diſmayed  with  the
troublesthat  ſhall  befall  vs.
T  heſecondanſiver,;that  Paw{was  known  tothe  Chriſtian  lewes
25  not  by  face;
bt  by  beaveſay  :  this  may  {eeme  ltrange,  conlidering  Paw!
wasat  leruſalemy&  trauaiicd  tarough  luriezinto  Syriaand  Cilicia:
but  it  isthetruth  :  and  thercaſon  ot  itisplaine.  The  office  of  an
Apoſtle  is  not  to  build  vpon  the  foundation  of  an  other,or  to  ſuc-
ceed  any  man  in  his  labors,but  to  plant  &  tound  thecburchot  the
30  new  Teſtament,where  Chriſt  bad  not  bin  preached  or  named,
Row.  15,
20,[nthis  theApoltles  differ  from  all  the  Mioilters  ofthe  new  T  e-
amet  whatſocuer,  And  this  isthe  cauſe  why  Pa»/was  not  known
tothe  Churches  ot  Iudea.  And  here  we  f{ece,that  ſucceſhon(which
the  Papilts  magnihe  )is  not  alwates  a  note  of  thetrue  Church,and
35  chetrue  Mini(feric,  For  the  true  Minilterie  of  the  Apollles,  and
the  Apoltolicall  Churches  wantedit.  And  this  is  for  the  greater
commendation  of  them,
Aga'ne;it  is  ſaid,  that  Pav{  was  not  knowne  to  the  Churches  of
Iudea,  which  were  in  Chriſt,  Wherelet  it  be  obſerued,  that4  yeares
40  afterthe  aſcenſion  of  Chriſt,the  Apoltles  had  gathered,  &  planted
ſundrie  Chriſtian  Churches  in  ludea.  T  his  greatly  commends  the
efficacieand  power  of  the  Goſpel.For  hardoetle  of  heart  bad  over-
E  3
ſpread
