---
page: 469
pdf_page: 491
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.6.
459
vnto  them  in  the  Lord.  The  third,to  loveand  honorthem  tor  the
works  (lake.  T  he  fourth,the
Apoltle
ſpeakes  of  in  this  placezto
giue  |
not  onely  countenance,  but
allo  maintenance.
"Therealoos  ofthis  rule  are  many  and  weightie,
-_71
<A
$  Tee  ahoped  (cuen  |
co  maintaine  our
parents  if  t
in  want;  becauſe
maintained
vs,  and  gaue
vato  vs  ==  ?  Pea  aith,  It  is  py
thing
and  prwonry  -
be-
fore  God,  for  children  to  recompenſe  their  parents  and  progemenrs,  1.7  in,
5.4.  Now  if  this  bee  ſo,  men  are  bound  by
the  ſameright
to  main-
16  taine  their  ſpiritvall  fathers  in  Chriſt,  that  have  begotrea  them  a-
new  by  the  preaching
of  the  word  :  as  Paw/  faith,  Hee  travelled  in
pelne
of  the  Galatians
rl  Chriſt  was  formed
in  them,  41.  4.  and  that  hee
begate  Oneſinn  m  his  bonds,  Philem.v.10.  And,i.Corg.1  s.  ln  Chrift
leſus  I
bavie  begotten  you  through  the  Geſpell,  Hence  Paxi  commen  -
15  deththe  Galatians,Ga/  4  15.  for  that
if  it  had  been  pollible,  they
would  baue  plucked  out  their  eyes,and  have  giuen  them  bim.Aad
lurely,  wee  owe  voto  our  ſpiricuall  parents,  and  fathers  in  Chrilt,
pot  onely  this  temporall  traſh,but  cuen  our  ſelues,  as  Pax  faithto
Philem.  verie  19.  Albeit  I  doe  wot  ſay  ontothee  that  thou  oweſt  unto  mee,
10  even  thine
owne  ſelfe.
11.  It  is  a  law  of  cations,  and  aconcluſion  grounded  vpon
common  equitie,  that  thoſe  that
watch,  labour,  and  ipend  them-
{fues,axacandle,  to  giuelight  to  ocbers,and  that  fur  the  common
good
of  all,  hould  bee  maintained
of  the  common  (tocke  by  all.
if  Andthe  Lord  chargeth  allthetwelue  T  ribes,cven  all  1{racl,  Dev.
12.1,  Beware  thatthow  forſaksi?  not  the  Lenite,  ſo  long  45  thou  left  on
the  earth,
111,  Euerytrade,calling,andcondition  of  lite,  is  able  to  main-
taine  themichat  =  expericace  (hewes  :  )  theretore  wee
30  niay  northinke  thac  the  miniltery,beiog  the  higbcit  calling,ſhould
belo  baſe  or  barren,asthat  it  cannot  competently  maintaine  them
that  attend  thereupon.
V.  The  Minillers  are  the  Lords  ſouldiers,  his  captaines,  and  :.Cor.g.7,
ſtandard.bearers,  and  therefore  are  nat  to  goe  a  wartare  at  their  _
5;  gwnecolte:  the
Lords  labourers  in  hig  viveyard,aod  theretore  are
worthy  of  their
wa
ought  to  _—  fruite  of  the  vine-
on  the  Lords  ſhepheards,  fer  over  the  flocke  of  Chrilt  to  teed
is  ſheepe,
and  therefore  ought  to  eate  of  the  milke  of  the  flocke.
And  ſeeing  it  was  forbidden,  that  no  man  ſhould  muzzle  the
#  mouth  ofthe  oxe,that  treadeth  out  the  corne:  ſhall-we  thinkethat  ,,
eut.  2  5.4»
God  would  bave  thoſe  that  threfh  in  hjs  floore,  and  leparate  the  2.Cor.g.9;t0
wheate  from  the  chatfe,the  precious  from  the  vileto  be  muzzcled,
Hh  4
or
