---
page: 471
pdf_page: 493
---
the  Epiftle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.6.
491
s,  whereby  the  Nuniiteric  might  be  vpholden  ;  neither  had  it
blike  Chriſtian  Magiſtrates  ,  bur  wes  vader  cruell  tyrants  ia
perſecution:  and  therefore  thoſe  that  were  raught  inthe  word,
wereto  maintaine  their  teachers  by  liberal  contribytion,otherwiſe
;  they  might  flarve:  but  vow  the  Church  beeipg  greatly  jnriched,
they  may  without  contribution  be  ſufhctently  maintained  of  the
Church  goods,
And  .  a
it  is  much  moreconvuenient  for  the  Miniſters  to  bee
maintained  by  ſet  ſtipends  ,  ariling  from  goods  proper  to  the
Io
o  Church  ,  then  by  voluntarie  contribution  ,  it  may  appeare  by
this,
in  thatit  cuts  off  ſundry  inconueniences,  which  in  volunta-
contributions,  either  cannot  be,  crare  hardly.auoyded,  Firſt,
atterie,  and  ſuſpition  of  flatterie,  in  beeing  thought  to  have
ſome  perlons  in  admiration  ,  becauſe  of  advantage.
Secondly,
15  thepoorer  ſort  are  no  way  diſgraced  by  this  meanes,as  they  ſhould
bee  in  contributions  ,-  except  they  did  giue  ratably  as  the  reſt,
Thirdly,  diffembling  and  deceite,  in  makiog  as  though  they  re-
ceived  lirtle,  whenas  they  have  much,  is  cut  off  inaler  ſtipend.
Fourtbly,
the  euill  diſpoſed  would  not  ſocabily  caſt  off  their  Mini-
20  fier,and  ſeeke  a  new  that  would  teach  for  letle;  ur  would  give  no-
thing  at  all,  it  they  were  touched  to  the  quicke,  and  galled  for
their  linnes,  Fittly,oftentation  in  ſome;in  giving  much,and  diſdai-
ning  thoſe  that  give  lefſe.  S1xrly,  ſuſpition  of  couetoulneſſe  and
bleby  lucrein  the  Miniſters,  in  ſeeming  to  take  of  thoſeto  whom
25  they  ought  to  give.  Seuenthly,diſgrace  of  the  Miniltery,in  gathe-
ring  themſelues,or  —_  togatber  the  peoples  liberalitie
from  doore  todoore.  Laltly,  a
ſet  ſlipepd  comes  nearer  theorder
appointed  by  God,  in  maintaining  the  Prieſthood  vader  the  Le-
viticall  Jaw.
20
In  the  next  place,  I  will  anſwer  the  common  obieQti-
ons  that  are  made  to  the.contraric
,  by  ſuch  as  thinke  it  as
ealie  a  matter,  to  ſay  Service  in  the  Church  ,  as  to  doe  fer-
vice  in  the  houſe:  to  ſtand
at  the  Altar
ot  God,  as  to  tollowe
their  malters  ploughz
to  preach
in  the  Pulpit,  as  to  talke  in  theta-
35
uerne,
__
—T.  Obieft,  2.Thefſ.  3.  10,  They  which  will  not  works  ,
muſt  not  cate.
But  Minuiters  never  plow,  nor  ſawe,  nor  hedge,  nor  ditcb,nor  vie
any  painetull  labuur  :  for  of  all  men  tbey  baue  the  ealteſt  lives:
their  greatct}  paines  isto  reade  over  a  few  bookes,  or  to  ſpeake  a
47  few  words,once  or  twiſe  a  week.  Therfore  they  are  not  to  be  main-
tained,  Anſwer.  T  here  isa  twofold  labour;one  of  the
badie.ang»
ther  of  the  minde:;  now  albcic  the  Miniſters  doe  not  weary  them:  _
ſelucs
