---
page: 496
pdf_page: 518
sortable_pagination_id: "496"
---
Chap.6.
'\  AConmentarie  open
495
-wotks:  again  whom  $.  [ame  writeth;chap.2.  14.  B/bat  andileth  it,
hlagda  mantyto  had
farb.whnb/idthwowess  Þ  cor  the  pains
lint  20.  Wilrrhow  underſtand,  ©  1bou  viine  man,  that  faith  which  6  nich-
ala_norker.dexd  ?
We  muſt  therfore  ſow  the  ſeeds  of  good  works
_  in  this  life,if  after  this  life  welooke  toreape  the  haruelt  of  eternal  5
lite»  and  gioe
all  diligence  by  good  workes,  tomake  ourcalling
apdeledionvre;thatasitis  fore
in  it  felfein
Gods  vochangeable
decres,2.7m.2.19.  fo  wee  may  make  it  ſureto  vs,  1.Per.  3.40.  20d
ſolayvpiv  ſtorea  good  foundation  againſt  the  time  tocome;that
we  Dor  Bare  op  name  3  6.19.
.  -  Laffly,  itccroffeththe  wickedeonceitandimagination  of
thake
_mev4hat  5s,  wal  I  pas
ſooles,iopromiſing  tothemſelues
an  impunitiefrom
linne,and  av  immunity
from
all  cheiudgn
of  God,notwithſtandingthey  go  on  io  their  bad  praQtiſes;and  all
becauſe  God  doth  nor  prelent)y  takevengeance  on  them  for  their  4
venes  For
they  doe  not  conlider,that  their  (innes  areas  ſecdes,
ich  mult  have  atimeto  grow  in,  before  they  come  to-maturitie,
but  being  orice  ripe  and  toll  eared,ler  them  ature  themiclucs
God
wil  cut  them  downe  with  the  lickle  of  his  ivdgments,as  wereade
Gen.15.16.  They  remember  not  what  the  Lord  faith  by  lereme,  ©
that  be  will  not  weary  himſelfe  with  following  aftertheſewildaf
Frie. 2.24.
ſes,vſedto  the  wildernes,  which-\nuffe  vp  the  wine  by  occalion  at
their  plcaſure,and  nonecan  turne  them  back,bmt  wil  ſeeke  fot  them,
and  finde  them  in  their  n.onetbs,  that  is,when  their  iniquity  ſhall  beat
the  tull,the  Lord  will  meet  with  them.
8  For,  he  that  ſoweth  to  the  fleſb,  (hall  of  the  feſt  reape  cor-
ruption  :  but  hee  that  ſoweth  to  the  ſpurit,  (hall  of  the  ſpirut  reape
life  enerlaiting.
Heere  S.  Pas!  ſpecifieth  that  in  particolar,which  before  hehad  gx
delivered  in  generall,viz..  what  he  meant  by  /o»:»g,  &  reaping.  And
this  heedocth  by  adiſtribution,  or  enumeration  of  the  kinds  of
fowing  &  reaping:  ſhewing,that  there  are  two  ſorts  offeeds  which
men  fow  in  this  life,good  and  evill.T
wo  kinds  of  ſowers,ſpiritoall
men,and  carrallmen,  Two  fortsof  ground,  in  which  this  ſeed  is  *
ſowen;the  fizſh  and  the  ſpirit.  Twolorts
of  harveſts,  which  men
aretoreape  according  totheſeed;  corruption  ,  and  life  :  as  Paw
faith,  If  yee  bee  after  the
fleſh,  yer  ſhall  die  +  but  if  ye  mortifiethe  derdes
of  the  betlybythe  ſpirit,  ye  paltinie,Rem.$  1  3.  T  heſe  two  fortsof  har-
velts,being  anſwerabletotheſeed  :  corruption  and  death,being  #
the  harvelt  of  the  ſeed  foxen  tothe  Aſh  :  life  and  immorralitie;ot
$hat  co  the  ſpiric;
T  CIAL
