---
page: 497
pdf_page: 519
sortable_pagination_id: "497"
---
Tacian  theheretike,
and.authour  of  the  ſc  of  the
Fiamrerrer,
doth  gather  from  this  and  thelike  places,  that  mariage
is  ini  ſeite
ſimply  euill;becauſe  it  is  a  ſowing  tothe  fleſh.  To  himwe  may  ad-
ioyne  the  Popes  holine(ſe,Syricrws,  whoreaſonethatter  the  ſame
5  maner,t0  prooue  that  Prieſls  ought  not  to  marie,  becad(i{Qith:
he)  they that  are  1m  the  fleſh,  canmot  pleaſe  God,  Romanes  8,8.  white  he
condemneth  all  marriages  re
both  in  the  Cleargie,
and
the  Laitie.  Ds»,  82,  (Vnderſtanding,  as  though  Pawd  thould
eproperly  of  ſeed,and
of  the  flef,)  But  wortbily  was  Tacia-
10
Jare  inionconfuted,and  be  condemned  foran  Leghes  for
the
Apolileſpeaketh
nat  of  the  works  of  nature  ,  but  of  corrupt.
pature,  which  ouerturneth  the  divine  order  wbich  God  ſetio  ga-.
ture,in  thecreation.  Belides,the  Apoſtolike  writer  ſaith,that  mar»:
Hebe.r  z.3.
ruage  5  bonorrable
among  all  men,  (got  the  firlt  onely,  butalſo  the  ſe-
15  cond;third,
&c.  ad  among  Cleargy
men  as  well  as  others:  )  and
therefore
the
mariage
bed  being  wedefiled,
that  is,  being  vicd
in
dns  tothe  fleſh,  but  to  thelpirit,  as  Popſh
*  Catharinus
*doconrs  are  enforcedto  confelle.  Laſtly,  Paniſaith  not,  Hee  that
in  Comment.
ſowerh  to  the  fleſh  ſhall  of  the  fleſh  reape  corruption  :  but,be  that  ſoweth  to
in  hunc  locn.
10  bis  fle/6,cc.  Now  no  man  (  except  hee  beworle  then  a
bruit  healt)
x  him(cl  bby  wn  owne
naſal  qr  I
ypon
thi
.)
Others,  by
ſowing
tothe
fleſh  and  {pirit,  vader-
ſtand  the
ing
after  the  fruites  of  the  fleſh  and  of  the
fpirit,,
mentioned  inthe
chapter,ver.  19.22.  But  chis  expolition.
15  cannot  ſtand  in  this  place  becauſetheillative  particle  (for)  in  the
Age  yerl,ſheweth  cuidently;that  thele  words  depend
vypon  the
,a8  an  exegels,or  expolition  thereof,  where.  Pavi
|  not  generally  of  du  paniaalecty  of  thoſe  workes  which
10
Byſowing  to  the  fleſh  therefore  the  Apoltle  meaneth  nothing
els,  but  tolige
in  the  fleſh,to  walk  inic,to  take  pleaſureio  it,to  fol-
low  thedeſires  of  it,and
to  fulfilltheluſts  thergf.  More  plaioly;it  is
wholly  to  give  &  addi  a  mans  (elfe  to  the  pleaſures,  profits;  ho-
nors,and  preferments  of  this  lite,&  to  ſpend  himlclte,his  (treogth,
3s  and  wit  in  compaſling  of  them,  haviog  little  or  go  reſpeRot  the
lifetocomeghow  he  may  compalle  the  rich  purchaſe  o  the  king-
dome
of  heauen:  which  who
{odotb,ſhall  reap  Botbiog  at  the  har-
for  his  reward;eternall  death,
velt,but  corruption:  that  is,ſhal  baue
vaderſtanding  by  corruption  ,  the  corruption  of  good  qualities,
©  notof  the  ſubltance.  On  the  contrary,to
low  to  the  ſpiritzisto  live
inthe  ſpirit,and  to  walke  according  to  the  ſpirit,  and  tamortibe
thedeeds  of  the  fleſh  by  the  (pirit,und  todae  thoſe  i
KK
&Z
Qtaer-
