---
page: 476
pdf_page: 498
---
pou
\  A  commentarie
Chap.6.
475
the  miniſtery,and  theedification
of  the
of  Chri
12.)  But  that  thereſhall  be  no-neede  of  this
kind:
of
to
catechize  them  in  the  firſtrudiments,  as  toteach  them  what  God
is.  Synec4echically,not  of  perte&t  and  abſolute  knowledge,forwe  al
know  but  in  party1.{or.1  3.12.But  of  initiate,or  inchoate  knowledge,  $
*\
_;  ...
the  lifg  tocome.
which  ſhall  be  conſurnmatein
that  hearers  are-not
Qtionfolloweth,
Further,  vpon  this  diſtin
not  to  intermeddle  with  the  publike  duties  of  the  miailtery,  for  «&
calling  wherein  God  hath  placed  bim,
nc
afterward,  when  the  Churches  were  founded.  it  was
\:vet
is
ith  Sabes
ARC  _—_  _
LI908,  one  o  ws
SAVE
of  it  Canmeiale
yerin  diſpenling
viog  of  the  Golpell  :
"Op
ira
bei
rence
2  it
teach.  7permit  not  4  womaento  teach,  1.7  im.2.12.  Let  women  keeps  ſilence  10
=  tbe  Churcheryfor  t  i  not  permitted  onto  thens  toſprake,  1  Corc14.34.
of  the
opinion
Apecalyps  2.20.  T  his  condemneth-the  fantaſticall
Anabaptiſls,  that
all  men  may  ſpeake  publikely  without
the  inflin®  ofthe  Spirit,
difference,  according
to
and  meaſure  of
his  gifts.  .
Againe,when
Pau{laith,He  that  is  tawght  in  the  word,c5c.  him  that
;  pn  lm
the  word;5c.he
ſhewes  what  the  duty  of  the  Miniſter
is,that
lookes  to  live  by  his
miniſtery,namely,not
to
ceory  with  Thi  If
vg
Leg
Facbers(for  what  isthe  chaffeto
the
God:  torthere
isno  word  nor
writing
ins  the  world  be-
lides;that  hath  a  promiſe  to be  the  power  of  God  toſaluation,Rew.  15
1.able  tomakemena  wiſeto  faluation.  2.7.3.1  5,togive
an  inheri-
tance  amonglt  them  tort  20.'  Tobe  livelyand
mighty  in  operation,  ſharper
any
twoedged  ſword,  entri
through,  cucnto  the  dipidiogaſunder:  of  the  loule  and  the'Spiritz
dt
the  ioynts  and  the  marrow,  andto  beadiſcerner  of  the  thoughts  49
and  iftents  of  the  hearts;  Hebrewes  4.1  2,.a0d  that  can  make  the  man
of  Godabſalute  to.cucry  good  work.2.7imarh.z.1  7.  but  onely  this
word
