---
page: 499
pdf_page: 521
sortable_pagination_id: "499"
---
the  Epiſtle
499:
ta  the  Galatians.
Chap.6.
of  the  dignitie
of  the  works  :  which  notwithſlandiog  the  Rhemiſts,
and
others,
labour  6  £ur  a
out  of  this  ſimilitude,  vrging  the  a-
palogie  betweene  ſeed  and  good  workgs,contrary  tothe  current  and
fireameoftheir  own  Doors.  Thirdly  I  anſwer;that  good  works
$  are  (ee6s,  yet'faith
is  the  root
of  theſe  ſeedes  :  and  in  that  good
workes
are  made  theſeedes  of  cternall  life,  it  is  to  bee  aſcribed  to
Gods  mercifull  promile  ,  not  to  the  meritof  the  worke;  for  in
that  we,orour  workes,are  worthy
of  thele
ingit  is  more
of  Gods  mercy,  then  our  merit.  Fourthly,the  Apoltle  ſheweth
19  dnely  who  they  are  that  ſball  aFerite  etervall  life;  and  the  order
how  life  is  attained  :  but  notthe  cauſe  wherefore  it  is  given.  It  will
be  (aid,not  only  theorder,but  the  cauſe  isſet  downe,  as  it  may  ap-
you  by  the  axz\:tbefi:  :  for  as  ſowing  tothe  fleth,is  the  cauſe  of  de-
Rion,ſoſowing  to  the  ſpirit,is  the  cauſe  of  eternall  life.  Auſw.
15  Itistrue  in  the  one,
but  not  in  the  other.  For  firt,Cinpes  or  works
of
the  Heſh  are
perfeRly  eyill,
as  beiog  abſolute  breaches  of  the
law,aod  delerue  infioite  puniſhment,
becauſe  they  offend  aninfi-
nite  maieſtie:  whereas  workes  of  theſpirit,  are  imperfeQly  good,
having  io  them  wants,andimperfeRtions,  (there  being  in  euery
20.g00d  workea  (inne  of  omillion,)comming
ſhort  of  that  perfeRi-
onthatis  requiredio  the  law:  they  being
good
and  perfect,as  they
the  ſpirit  of  God;  im
and  vicious,  as  they
Lome  from
vs.  Euen  as  wateris  pureas  it  proceeds  fromthe  foun-
tain  :  but  troubled,as  it  runneth  thorow  a  filthy  channel;or  as  the
25  writing  is  imperfe@  and
Faultie,as  it  comesfrom  the  yorg  learner,
but  perfect,  and  abſolute  ,  as  it  proceedeth  from  the  Scrivener
which  guideth  his  hand,  So  that  if  God(  ſetting  alidemercie)
ſhould  trie  them  by  the  touchſtone  of  the  word,  they  would  bee
found  to  be  but  counterfeit.  Andif  he  ſhould  weigh  them  ia  the
26  ballanceof  his  iuſtice,  they  would  be  found  toolight.  Secondly,
there  isa  maineditference  betwixt  the  workes  of  the  fleſh,and  the
works  of  the  ſpirit,in  this  very  pointzin  that  the  works  of  the  fleſh
areour  owne  works,and  not  the  workes  of  Godin  vs:  andſo  wee
deſerue  etervall  death,  by  reaſon  of  them,  they  being  our  owne
35  wicked  works  :  whereas  good  works  proceed  not  from  vsproper-
1y,ſceing  we  are  not  ſufficient  of  our  (clues  to  thinke  any  |  good]  thing  as  of
owr  /elnes,  2.  (or.3.5.  but  fromthe  ſpirit  of  God,  who  worketh  in
v8  both  the  will  and  the  deed;  and  arehis  workesin  vs:  therefore
being  not  ours,  wee  can  merit  nothing
by  them  atthe  hands  of
that  ſoweth  tothe  ſpi-
40  God,  Thirdly,obſerue,that  it  is  oot  id  he
ther  which  he  bath  [owen,reape  hfe  enerl.  ſting,  but,/hall  of  the
it,/ſoall  of
ſpirit  reape  /ife  enerl!iting,  Where  wee  ſee  the  Apollle  attributes
nothing
Kk  3
