---
page: 5
pdf_page: 5
---
LE
mn
p,
--
,,
TO  THE
RIGH
HONORABLE,  RLGHT
VERTVOVS,  AND  MOST
TRVLY
RELIGIOVS
LORD,
RoBrerkT,  Lord  Ricn,  Baron
of  Leeze,&c.  Grace  and  peace,
HE  boly  Scriptures  (Right  Hopoorable)  g  X
ven  by  ng
nn  je  and  penned  by  t
holy  men  of  God,  Prophets,Apoltles,  and  A-
poſtolike  writers,  not  by  priuate  motion,  but
as  they  were  guided  by  the  holy  Ghoſt;
are  ,
.TIim.z.  46.
not  onely  commen  Jed  by  God,  and  left  vato
the  Church  as  apretious  dcpoſiram  carefully  to
be  kept  in  their  integritie(for  which  cauſe  the  **<*-1-20.
Church  igcalled  the
ground  and  pillar  oftruth,  1,Ti1,3.15.)not  tobe
defended  onely  by  the  ſword  of  the  Magiſtrate,  agaiolt  Heretikes,
Schiſmatikes,and  men  of  ſcandalous  lite,in  which  reſpe&  he  iscal-  r.  Tim.  6.  20.
led(and  that  truly  ,)Caftor  vtrinſque  tabuls  :  but  alſotobethe  pillar
and  foundation  PET  to  reſt  oor  faith  ;  the  touch-llone  of
froth  ,  che  ſhoppe
of  remedies  for  all  ſpirituall  maladies  ;  an  anker
inthe  blaſts  of  Temptation,  and  waves  of  afflition  z  agwo  edged  eph.s.  ry.
{word  to  foyle  andput
toflight
our  ſpirituall  enemies;  the  onely  _.
Oracleto  which  wetnuſt  h  1ve  recourſe,  and  whereat  we  areto  en-  On
quirethe  will  of  God:  In  a  word  ,  the  bread  and  water  of  life,
whereon  our  ſoulesare  to  feedevnto  eteraall  life.  Therefore  we  are
commanded  to  ſearchthe  Scriptures  as  for  ſilver,  androſeeke  tn  r,1,..,
them  as  for  treaſures,  toreadein  them  continually,  tomeditate  of  PG.  r.  2.
them  day  and  night,  tovſerhem  as  bracelets  vpon  our  armes,  and  Veut  6.8,
trontlers  betweene  our  eyes;  toteach  them  to  our  polteritie  ,  and
totalke  ofthem  when  we  are  in  our  houſes,and  when  we  walke  by
the  way,  when  wee  downe,  and  when  we  arevp.  And  great  rea-
{on  there  isof  this  commandement;,  ſeeing  that{as  an  ancient  wr  Hugo  de  S,
terſaith)  Quicquid  in  cis  docetur  veritas  oft  :  quicq  144  precipitur  bonutas  2
7.00
eft\:qricquidpromutitur  felicitas  eft\:that  is  Yoatſoewer  is  tanght  in  them,  _  nd;
1  trath  ut  ſelfe  :  whatſaquer  FE  goodmeſſe  it  ſelfe  iw  74/0.  Wer  cis.  hib,  ee
6s
