---
page: 50
pdf_page: 72
sortable_pagination_id: "50"
---
Go
Chap.1.
A  Commentarie  pon
whicObriſt  faith,  that
the  Lord  of  life.  And  thus,that  is  verified
his  Diſciples  beleeviog  in  him,  ſhould  doe  greater  things,  then  hee
did  not  convert  multi-
ing
tor hee  by
had  done,  /eb.14.12,
into  Churches,  as  the  Apo-  5
of  the  Jewes,  and  range
tudes
the  Goſpel,  by  meanes  of  the
ſiles  did.  Here  againe  ,  we  feerhat
of  divicions.  For  after  the  Gol-
corruption  of  man,  is  an  occaſion
Chur-
pel  was  preached  by  the  Apoſtles,  there  aroſe  a  diviſion  of
ches  among  the  lewes.  Some were  Churches  in  Chriſt,  and  ſome
of  Chriltz  pamely,the  Synagogues  which  refuſed Chrift.  We  16
out
nowe  adaiestake  offence,  if  ſchilmes  and  diſ-
may  not  therefore
ſentions  followe,  where  the  Goſpel  is  preached-it  is  aot  the  fault
ofthe  Goſpehit
is  the  fault  of  men.
T  hat  Pa»{  mightthe
better  ſhew,  that  hee  was  knowne
to  the
Chorches  of  the  [ewes,onely  by  beare-ſay,be
the
is
that  weotof  bim.  Hence  |  gather,  itis  not
vnlawfolltorell
and
the  prejudice  of
heare  reports  or  newes,ſo  beit,  they  bee  netto
the  truth,
of  theglory  of  God,  and  the  good  name
of  men,  Nay
is  commendable  to  report  ,  and  beare  newes,  that  concernes
increaſe  of  God  kingdome,
and  the  converſion  of  wicked  men.
In  the  report  two  IS  downe,  what
Paul  did?He  once
perſecuted  v1,  and  deſtroyed  the  faith:  what  hee  now  doth?  Hepreacherh
the  Goſpel.  By  this  weſee  that  verified,  which  7/as  foretold,  that  the
lyon,the  wolfe,  the  lambe,  &c.  ſhould  peaceably  live  t
er.
Againe,
bere  welſce,  that  all  things
earth,  are  ſobie&  to  25
cbange
and  alteration:  ſo  as  it  may  be1aid,  heretofore  it  was  thos,
and  thus,  butnow  it  is  otherwiſe.  Therefore  in  miſeries,
wee  may
72.0
A”  RS
TEAR
ORE
not  bee  over-much  grieued,for
they  arechangeable:  and  in  earth-
ly  things,  we  may  notreioyce
ouer  much,  becauſe  they  are  mo-
table,  andſubieR  to  daily  alterations,  Our  ſpeciall  caremuſt  be,  36
to  auoide  etervall  and  vnchangeableevils;  as  death,and  the  cauſe
of  death,namely,lin;andto  purchaſe  to  our  ſelues,the  goodthings
which  arceucriaſting,oamely,the  fauour  of  God,&  everlaſtinglie
Furthermore,thething,  which  Paw/  aimed  at,  in  perſecutiog
the  Church,is  to  be  conlidered,and  that  was,  that  bee  might  deflroy
7;  5.
the  fauth,  By  faub,weare  tovnderſtand  the  dodtrine  ofthe  Golpel
and  withall,  che  vertue,  or  gittof  faith,  whereby  it  is  beleeued\:for
the  divell  and  hisin(traments,  ſeeketheoverthrow  of  both.  Chriſt
faith  ,  Satan  deſired  to  fift  bis  Diſciples,  that  is,  to  ſift  all  their  faith
out  ©.  their  hearts,  and  toleauenothiog  in  them,  but  chaffe,  Lak,  46-
22.32.  Herethen,  it  may  be  demanded;\:vbether  faith  maybe  loſt,
ſpecially  iatbechildren  of  God,  in  the  time  of  temptation,  and
perſecution  ?
