---
page: 500
pdf_page: 522
sortable_pagination_id: "500"
---
4  Communarit
peu
500
Chap.6.
nothing
to  our  works,but  tothe  grace  of  Gods  ſpirit.  L  afily,  Row,
6.23.  the  holy  Ghoſt  putteth'manifeſt  difference  betweene  the
works  of  the  fleſh,  and  of  the  ſpirit,  io  reſpe  of  merit,when  hee
ſaith,7  he  woges  of  ſinne  is  death:  but  eternal  hfe  is  the  gift  of  God,  Hee
faith  not;that  eternal  life  is  the  reward  of  good  works,
but  the  gift  5
of  God.  Now  in  thereward  of  linne;there  is  merit  preſuppoſed  :  in
thegift  ofeternall  life,  nothing  but  grace  and  fauour.
ObieFF,  IT.  Godgiueth  eternal  life  according  to  the  meaſure
and  proportion  of  theworke,  v.  7,  As  a  man  ſoweth,  ſo
ſpall  bere
2.Coam,g.6,  Hethat  ſaweth  ſparingly,  ſhall  reape  ſþaringly,and  bee  that
10
ſeneth  liberally,  (hall  reape  liberally,s.Cor.3.8.  Encry  one  ſpall  receing
his
proper  wage:  according  to  bis  owne  labour.  Therefore  in  giviog  e-
wal  life,he  hath  no  reſpe&  of  the  promiſe  or  compa,  but  of
the  dignitie  and  efficacie  of  theworke,  4»/wer,  Fulnelle  of  glory,
called  by  Schoolemen,  eſſential!  glory,  is  given  onely  tor  the  merits  t  5
of  Chriſt,  in  the  riches  of  Gods  mercie,  without  all  reſpe&  of
works.  Accidentall  glory,(when  one  bath  a  greater  meaſure  of  glo-
ry,another  aleſſe,  as  whenvellels  of  vacquall  quantitie  calt  ioto
the  ſea,are  all  filled,yet  ſomehauea  greater  meaſure  of  water,ſome
ale(ſe)  is  given,not  without  reſpeR  of  workes  :  yet  ſo,as  thatitis  :6
not-giuen
for  works,but  _—  toworks,they  being  infallible
teltimonies  of  their  vofained  faith
in  the  merits  of  Chriſt.  1fit  be
ſaid,that  eternal  lifeis  given  as  a  reward,meritoriouſly  deſerued  by
good  workes,  becaulc  it  is  ſaid,Come  ye  bleſſed  :  for  1  was  bungry,  and
ee  gave  mee  meat,  Math,25.  I  anſwer,it  is  onething  to  beiullan  25
other  thing  to  be  declared  and  knowne  to  be  juſt.  We  are  iuſt  by
faith,but  we  are  knowne  to  be  iuſt  by  our  workes  :  therefore  men
ſhall  bee  iudged  at  the  laſt  day,  not  by  their  faith,  but  by  their
works.  For  thelaſt  iudgement  ſerueth  not  to  make  men  iull  that
are  vniuſt,  which  is  done  by  taith,  but  to  manifelt  the  to
the  world  3®
what  they  are  in  deed,  whichis  done  by  workes,  Men  areoften
Plal.r
«2.
compared  to  trees  in  Scripture.  Now  a  tree  is  not  knowne  what  it
is  by  his  ſap,but  by  bis  fruite;  neither  are  men  knowneto  bee  iult
lerem.17.$,
Math.  z.10,
by  their  faith,  but  by  their  works.  Indeed  a  tree  is  therefore  good,
becauſe  his  ſap  is  good  :  but  it  is  knowne  to  be  good  by  his  truit.  z5.
So,a  man  is  iuſt,  becauſe  of  his  faith,  but  he  is  knowneto  bce  iult
by  his  good  works  :  therefore  ſeeing  that  the  laſt  ivdgement  molt
proceed  according
to  cuidence  that  is
vpon  record,(for  the  booke:
Apoc.  20.12,
muſt  be  opened,
aud  men  muſt  be  indgedof  thoſe  things,that  are  written  i
the  bookes  )  all  muſt  be  iudged  by  their  workes,  whichare  evident  49.
and  apparent  tothe  view  of  all  men,and  not  by  their  faith,  which
isnot  expoled  to  the  ſightof  any.  And  hence  it  is  that  the  Scrip»
ture
