---
page: 501
pdf_page: 523
sortable_pagination_id: "501"
---
the  Epifleto  the  Galatians,
Chap,6.
ture  ſaith,
we  ſhal  be  iudged  according  to  our  works,but  it  is  no  where
(aid,  for  our  good  workes,  Gregorie
laith,Godwil  grueto
One  Accor-  Tn  Pal
ding  to  bis  workes  :  bat  it  is  one  thing  to  give  according
to  —_—  an  other  tru
,for  workes,  For  warkes  areno  way  the  cauſe  of  reward  ;  but  =i9
5  -  the  common  meaſure,  according  to  which  God  giveth  a
greater
or  leſſer  reward,  Take  this  reſemblance.  A  King  promiſeth  41;ud  proprer
vnequall  rewards  to  runners  (the  leaſt  of  which  wouldequall  the  operareddere
richesof  a  kingdome)
yponcondition,  that  hee  which  firlt  com-
meth  cothegoale,  ſhall  have  the  greateſt  reward;  the  ſecond,the
10  next,and  (0  in  order.  They  having  finiſhed  their  race,  the  King
the  reward  according  totheir  running.  Who  would
ence  but  childiſhly  inferre,  that  therefore  they  merited  this  re-
ward  by  their  rugnipg?  And  whereas  they  vrgethattext,  ſath.
25,  Come  jee  bleſſed,  for  I  was  bungrie,  and  yee  fedde  mee:  1  anſwer,
15  firlt,thatthe
word  [fer  ]doeth  not  alway  (ignifiea  cauſe,  but  any
ument  orreaſon  taken  from  any  Topick  place:  as  Rowe.  3.2  2,2  3
The  righteowſner  of  God  is  made  manifeſt  unto  all,  and  pon  althatbeleene.
For  there  is  no  difference  :  for all  jt  EE  deprined  of  the  glory
of  God.  Whereſinne  is  no  cauſe  of  the  righteauſaelle  of  faitb,bur
20  only  an  antecedent,or  adiant,commontoall  men.  So  when  we
fay,7  bisis
the  mether
of  the
chi
be  will  not  bane  it  diuided,  T  here
[for  ]doetb  not  implie  the  cauſe,  as  though  ber  refuling  to  have  ic
divided,  did  make
ber  the  true  mother  ot  it  :  but  onely  the  ligne,
that  ſhe  was  the  true  mother  indeed.  Secondly,  be  it  granted  that
25  itimplieth  che  cauſe,
yet  not  the  meritoriouscauſe\:for  good  works
areſaid  to  be  cauſes  of  eternalilife,not  as  meriting,  procuring,  or
deſerving  any  thing  at  the  hands
of  God,  but  as  they  arethe  kiogs
high  way  to  eternall  life,  God  hauing  prepared  good  workes,  that
we  ſhould  walkein  them,  lf  a  Kiog  promiſe  his  ſubicRatreaſure
20  hidin  thetopot
a  [teepand  high  mountaive,vpon  condition  that
.hee clime  anddig  it  out  :  hiscliming  anddigging  is  theefficient
cayſc  of  enjoying  thetreaſure  ,  but  no  meritoriouscauſe  of  obtai-
ning  it,ſeeing  it  was  freely  giyen.  |t  it  be  further  ſaid;that  the  word
[for]doth  here  (jgaifiethe  cauſe,
as  wel  as  in  the  words  following,
25  Goe  yee  curſed,  —  for  |  was  bungry,and  ye  gane  me  no  meat  :  lecing  our”
Sauiour  Chrill  ſpeaketh  after  the  ſame  maner,of  thereward  of  the
godly,and  punithment  of  the  wicked.  1  aoſwer,  The  paritie  of  the
reaſon  {tands  in  this,  that  as  by  good  workes  we  come  to  eternall
life,ſo  by  wicked  works,we  run  beadlong  toperdition.  T
he  dill-
40  militudeis  this,that  evill  worksare  not  only  the  way,  but  allo  the
cauſe  of  death  :  good  works  are  the  way,but  not  the  cauſe,as  Zer-
ward  {aith,they  arc  v14  regi,non  cauſa  regninal,
K  k  4
Obiclh,
