---
page: 502
pdf_page: 524
sortable_pagination_id: "502"
---
502
Chap.6.
A  Commentarie  11p0n
Obieft.  I  11,  Here  God  promiſeth  eternalllife  togood  works:
therefore  good  works  merit  eternall  life.”  A»/w.  T  here
is  a  dovble
_  covenant,  Legal,and  Enangelical.  In  the  legal!  conenant.the  promile
ofcternall  life  is  made  vnto  works.  Doe  this  and  line,  If  thow  wilt  emer
into
life
keope  thee
commandements.  But  thus  no  man  can  merit,becaoſe  5
nonecan  fulfillthe  law.  In  the  Exangelicallconenant  the  promiſe  is
not  made  tothe  worke,but  tothe  worker,  and  totheworker,  not
for  themerit  of  his  worke,  but  forthe  merit  of  Chriſtas  Aper2/to,
Be  fatthfullynto  the  end,
and  I  wil  gine  thee  a
crowne  of  life:  the  promile
is  not  made  to  fidelitie,but  to  the  faithfull  perfor,  whoſe  6delitie:19
2.Cor  1.10,
isa  (ſigne  that  heis  in  Chriſt,  in  whom  all  the
promiſes  ef  God  ave  yea,
and  Amen,  that
is,  molt  certaine  and  infallible.  Secondly  if  any
thing  be  due  to  workes,  it  isnot  of  the  merit  of  the  worke,  butof
In  Pal.  z1.  Gods  mercifull  promiſe.  Auguſtine  ſaith,  God  made  himſelfe  a  debrer,
qe  debedo,  net  by  owing  any  thing.but  by  promiſing.  Thirdly,  noreward  isdueto  51
EN  ht  =
regeneration,ypon  compa  and  promiſe:  fir{t,becauſe
{<ir  debtors,  WE  are  not  vnder  the  covenant  of  works,
i11  which  God  dothcouc-
nant  with  vs  vpon  condition  ofour  obedience  ;  but  vndertheco-
venant  of  prin  tenor  of  which  couenant  runneth  vpon  con-
dition  of  therherits  of  Chrilt  a  by  faith.  Secondly,  #9
though  wee  were  vader  the  legall  covenant,  yet  we  merit  not,
be-
Rcl121.de  Tuft.  cauſe  our  works  are  not  anſwerableto  the  law.  Laſtly,whereasthe
ltb.s.c.z.
pillars  of  the  Romiſh  Chureh  teach,  that  the  promiſe  madevpon
condition
of  performing  the  worke,maketh  the  performer  tome-
rit,is  very  falſe.  Thisis  not  ſufficient  to  make  a  meritorious  work:  #5
it  is  furthercequired,that  the  work  be  anſwerable  and  correſj
dent  in  worth  &  value;tothe  reward\:as  if  one  ſhal  promiſe  a  thou
fand  crowns
to  him  that  wil  fetch  alittle
water  out  of  the  next  wel;
Uisdebt  indeedin  the  promiſer;but  no  merit  in  the  performer;be-
cauſe  there  is  no  proportion  betweene  thg  worke,and  the  reward,  3®
Obieft.  I  V.  Sowing  tothe  ſpirit,  is  a  good  worke,  and  reaping
eteroallife,the  reward
:  but  reward  preſuppoſeth  merit:  therefore
fowing  to  the  ſpirit  doth  meriteternall  life.  Avſwer,  T
here  is  a
>  «rs  :4,,  Jooble  reward,one  of  favear,another  of  drbr,Rom.4  4.  To  him  that
226  157  +344.  workerly,the  wapes  it
not  counted
by  fanowr
but  by  debr.  So  faith  «Aw-  35
E011,  6rofe,  Thereis  one  reward  of  liberalitie  audfanour:  another  rewardywhich
Alia  eſt  mer.  {s  the  ſkipend  of  vertue,and  recompenſe  of  our  labowy.  Therefore  reward
ces  liberalie  fignifieth  generally  any  recompence;or  any  gift  thatis  beſtowed
115  &  grat'Z>  ypananother,  whetherit  be  more  orleſſe,  whether  anſwerableto
ld  virtuts-
the  worke  or  rot,  whether  vpon  compaR,  or  otherwile  :  for  the  40-
ſipendium,
{iboris  rezue  Scripture  maketh  mention  of  reward,  where  there  are  no  prece-
Ncrano,
deat  workts,  as  Geneſis  15.1,  Feare  not  Abran,,1  am  thine  exceeding
greas
S,
