---
page: 503
pdf_page: 525
sortable_pagination_id: "503"
---
the  Epiftle
to  the  Galatians.
.Chap.6.
-  503
"peat
reward,  thasis,.
thy  full  covtcatand  bappineſſe.  Pal.127.  3.
|  Che  fme
of  the  wombe  1s  «  t
tis,a  bleſſing,  and  afreegift  of
God.
ln  thisſenſe(l  popt}ecerasl  life  is  a  reward.  Yetit  isno  pro-
per  reward,
but  ſo  called
by  a  catacbreſtwhich  yet  is  not  an  intolle-
5  rable  catacbrefic(as  Bellaymine  either  igooraptly.  or  malitioully  affir-  De  iuftifl.y  cz.
-meth)butca(ic  andfamihar;  forinthepbraſe  oftbe  Scripturegeter-
'-nall  life  is  called  a  reward,  in  a  genensllifignibcation,  when  it  is
vſed  abloluteiyz  and  not  relatively,to  lignitie  the  heele,  or  end  of
thipg.:  -and  ſo  the  Hebrew  word  which  lignifeth
@  beele,lig-  Hekeb  Pal,
1%  nieth.alfo  aremerd,  -becaule  itis  given  when.the  workeig  ended  :  1217.
And  eteraall  life  hath.tþis  reſemblapge  with  @  rewardiia-  that  it  is  2345.
givenat  theend  ofa  mans  life,  afterthat
his  traucll  and  warfare  is
ended.  Thusthe
e  words;  which  lignific  arewerdand  av  exd,  wore  mic.
xevied  indifferently  one  for  the  other.  1.Peter  1.9.  Receining
the
16  end  of  your  faith,  the  ſalnation  of  your  fowles  that  is,(a8  Beza  bath  fit-  5  micric
ly  tranſlated  it,)  rberemerd  ofyeurfauth  +forto  tranſlateit,  the-end  ©
faxth  cannotagreeta
the  wordreceimmng,
for  we  receive  not
anend  but  «reward,
T  hus.  oneddanibabotne  gift,  or  freerergu-
verationgas  when  the  mater  giveth  bis  (eruant  ſometbiog  for  his
faithfull  ſeruice(tbough  done  vpon  detic  )  when  as  hee  oweth
him  not  thaoks,  much  leflſe  reward,  Lake  17.9,  Deth  hee  thanke
that  ſeruant  þecanſe  bee  ard  that  which  was  commanded  vnte  ham  ?  ]  tow
15  98.  Thus  God  givethys  eterpalllite.no;  becauſe  hee  is
bougd.in
iulticeſo  to  doe,  {for  hee  owerb'vs  neither  rewards,  nor  thankes
for
our  labour,  becauſe  when  wee  bane  done  what  wee  can,  we  hane  but
tone  ovy  dnt1e,  verſe  10.)  but  becaufe  his  goodnetle,  and  wercitull
.  promiſe
made:  thereupon,  doth  excite  him  therevnto,  And  yet  e-
zz
ternall  life)  is  called  a  reward,  begavls  it  doth  2s  certainly  follow
good  worksas  though  it  were  due...  And  good  worksare  tneotio-
ned  inthe  promiſe,  becauſe  they  are  tokens  that  the  worker  isia
Chrilt,tor  whole  merit,the  promiſe  ſhalbe  accompliſhed.  Audit  is
further  called  the  reward  or  truic  of  our  fajth,  (as  bere  the  haruel!
x5  becauſe  it  isthe  way  and  meancs
of  abtaining  it.
564
{1
|  1:  Eternall  lite  is  called  areward  of  good  workes,  Noticauſe/-  Non  «namic
lj,as  procured  by  them,  but  conſeqrently,  as  following  them.  For  (cy  jyunec
albeit  it  be  giuen  proper
/y,  fortbemeritot  Chuilt  apprehended  by  Fur
coniequay
faith:  yet  it  14  gigen  conſequently  aSarecompence  of  our  labours  :  25
aQ  inheritance  is  giuen  toche  heire,nat  tor  any  duty  or  tcruiceybut
49
becauſe  hee  18  the  beire:  yet  by  conicquent  if  is  giveninrecom-
penſe
of  his  obedicuce.  Hee  that  forſakss  father  aud  mother,  —  ſhall
receine  4  hundred  fold  more  inthis  life,  and  inthe  world  t0  come  eterm«/l
ljeMatke  10.2930,
IIL.
