---
page: 505
pdf_page: 527
sortable_pagination_id: "505"
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians,
Chap.6.
Y93
ſocuer  a
man  doeth.in  being  beneficiall  tothe  Miniſterie,in
ing
the  Goſpel;&c,  be  doetbit  not  by  any  goodaelle  that  is
in  bimſelfe  ,  but  by  the  ſpirit  of  God,wboin  every  good  motion
workes
in  vs  the  will,and  in  every  goodaRion  the  deed,Pb1l,2.13.
4  therefore  no  man  ovghe  to  flatter  himlelfe.  in  this  reſpeR,  or  to
thicke  bighly  of  bimlelte,as
he  had  attained  an  extracrdi-
nary
meaſure  of  Gnditication;cither  for  afeding)  or  effeRing  a-
py  thing  that  is  good:  ſeeing  whatſocuer  good  thing  is  in  vgjis  the
Ee  Primafius
giftofGod,as  /eromfaitb.  On  tbe  contrary,what  euilſoeuer  a  man
hedoth.it  of  bimſelfe,God  being  neicher  the  author,  the  fur-  _  _—_
therer,nor  the  abetter  thereof.
quzcungue
Againe,we  bence  learne;tbat  allvaregenerate  perſons,are  ſow-  bona  ſunt.
er2to  the  fleſh,  becauſe  that  before  their  conuerlionithey  doe  no-
thing  but  thoſetbings  which  are  plealing  tothe  fleſh  :  fo  that  dy-
15
ingin  that  eſtate,they  can  reape
potbing  but  corruption:  therfore
_  followeth,that  Philoſophers,  heathen,and  all  meerecivill,
and  naturall  men,  being  ſuch  as  never  ſowedto  tbeſpirit,ſhal  reape
nothing  but  carruption;deatb,and  condemnation,contrary  tothe
inion  of  ſome  ancient,and  moderne  writers,
Forther,  obſerue  heere,  tbat  og  there  bee  ſomethat  are
Newters  in  religion,  luke-warme  Golſpellers,  baltivg  betweene
two  opinions,  fuch  as  are  neither  fiſh  vor  fleſh:  yet  in  merall  du-
ties  there  are  no  Nenters,  nor  mediators  :  forall  men  are  ranged  into
one  of  theſe  two  rankes,  either  they  are  ſowers  tothe  fleſh  ,or
z5  tothe  ſpirit.
Here  alſo  wee  ſee  who
e  worldlings  indeed  z  to  wit  ,  Phil  3.19
ſuch  a;  mind  cartbly  things,  in  din
themſclues,  their  (trengtb,
and  wits,  yponthe  world  ,
alltheir  care  for  it,  andalltheir
comfortinit  :  in  the  meane  time,haviog  little  or  no  talte  of  the
39  ioyes  of  the  world  to  come,  becanſe  they  make  their  Paradiſe  bere
vponearth,  and  neuer  looke  for  any.  beauen  after  this  lite.  As  al.
ſo  who  are  ſpirituall  men,  namely,  ſach  as  walke  in  the  ſpirit  ,
whotbough  they  livein  the  world,  in  theſe  bouſes  of  clay,yet
arenctof  the  world,  becauſe  they  ſet  not  their  affeRions  vpon  it  ,
35-but  haue  their  converſation  in  heauen,where  Chrilt  littethat  Gods
tight  hand.
This  ſerues  firlt  of  all,  to  diſcover  vnto  vs  our  owne  eſlate,whe-
ther  we  be  indeedecarnall,  or  ſpirituall:  forif  we  ſowe  to  the  flefh,
that
is,  be  alway  poring,and  digging  in  the  earth  with  the  mole  ,
4%-{etting
our  affections  vpon  it,  not  reterring  the  bleflings  of  God,
to  hisglory,  and  the  furtherance  of  the  Goſpel,  but  toſeruecur
_  onne  corrupt  deſires  :  weare  ficſhly  minded,(though  we  pretend,
this,
