---
page: 484
pdf_page: 506
---
.Chap.6.
A  Commentarie  fon
v  ho  is  not,  nor  will  not,  nor  cannot  be  mocked  :  for  what  wrong
{vevcr  is  dove  tothe  meiſenger  that  is  ſent,  the  [ame
is  Cove
to  his
Icrd  that  (ent  bim  ;  and  v  batfocuer  diſgrace  or  indigi-ttic  is  of-
fered  3n  Embailadour  ,the  fame  redovnds
to  the  Prince,  vhoſe
Embatfadour  ke  is,  T  his  oughtto  be  a  Caneat  vnto  vs,  to  take  x
bagehow  wee  coptemne  or  neglect  the  Miniſters  of  G
wherlocucr  wrong  is  donethem,  Chriſt  takes  it  as  dobe  to  him-
ſelfe,  Mat.25.45.  Ad  9  4.  This  lets  vs  fe  the  baincys  (ores  of
many  that  profe  tle  the  Goſpel,  ſpecially  io  this  kind,  v  ko,ncwat
this  da  (if  cucr)  are  ingeniousin  defrauding,  2nd  <Icquent  inde:  16
clain.ivg  2gaiul]  the  Minillcrs  cf  the  werd:  in  Iughing  themto
skcrve
as  they  did  our  Saviour  Chrilt,  ark.  s  42.  and
abuling
them  intearmes  and  teurts,  callingttcm  bald  priclls,
as  young
chilirca  called
Elizens  balde  pite  ,  (podoudt  following  the
cxampleof  their  parents,
of  vw
home  they  learned  it)  4  /eend  rhen  to
balce  pate  zaſcend
then  als  pate,2.  Kng.2.2  3.  T  hattbey  areroofullsf
ol  «  ſpirit  ,as  they  derided  the  Apol'les,  in  fayivg  ,  they  were  full  of
new  wine  ,  A.  2,  verſe  13.10  making  them  their  table  talke;wa-
king  ſongs  of  them,  asthedronkardsdid  of  Damid,
and  leremir,
lo  ſcourging  them  with  the  whippe  of  the  tongue,
as  tte  Stoicks  1,
Called  Pani  a  babbler,  A#.17  verſe  28.  and  F\:fu1a  madde  mar,
eA,  26.  Now  in  that  -
tbus  ſcornefully  abuſe  his  Miniſters,
and  {o  inCignely  ,  and  diſdainfully  intreate  bis  metiengers,  and
Emballadours  ;  what  doe  they  cls  but  abuſe  Chrilt  lefus  him-
{clfe,  and  through  their  lides,  wound  and  cracihe  bim  agaive  ?  15
When  Senchereb  Kingot  Aſhur  reviled  leruſalem  and  Hew
rob
the  Kiog  :  what  ſayes  the  Lord  ?  ©  wirgia  denghter  of  S1onghe  bath
(pied  thee
,  nd  l.nghed  thee  to  chorne  \:O  darghter  of  [ernſalam,  hee
hath  ſhaken  his  bead  at  thee,  Whom  haſt  thou  railed  on,au  blaſphemed!
and  againſ{  whom  haſt  thou  exalted  thy  w3ice,  and  lifted  vp  thine  eyes  on  39
bight  enenoganſt
the  boly  one  of  Iſrael.  Eſay,37.v.22,23c
T  be  vir,  Hence  we  learne;  that
hath  an  exaQ  knowledge
of  all  our  ations,  and  cannot  be  deluded,  Prez  15  11.Helland
de-
{trytion  arc  before  him,  bow  much  more.  &c,P(al.  11.4  Hiseyes
coplider  ,  hiscieliddes  trierhechildren  of  men.”  ſal.1;  g.v.2.  Hee  ;5
knowes  ourthoughtes  long  beforetbey  be.  Hiby.  4.12.  All  things  are
naked  and  bare  1a  his  Gght,  Reaſon  it  ſelfe  ſhewes,that  he  which.
made  theeie,  cannot  but  ſee,  hee  that  mare  the  heart  and  mince,
cannot  but  vocer{land  the  frame
abd  motion  th.  reof,Pſ./.g  4.vcrl.
9  10  &c.
49
i  l.  Thi:  ſhewes  the  madnetſcof  thoſe  w  hich  ſay,  God  heareth
nut,  ſyctt.  not;  vaderlanderh  oot  ,  or  «  hich  foy  in  ther  _
low
