---
page: 485
pdf_page: 507
---
the  Epifile
ts  the  Galatians,
Chap.6,
45
Fs
How  ſhould  he  heare  ?  is  there  knowledgein  the  molt  hightor  can
he  ſeethrough  thethickecloud  ?
111,  Henceweare  taughtin  our  praiers,  to  pore  forth  our
hearts  before  the  Lord,  without  concealing  ſo  much  as  the  lealt
'  5  ſinne,,  ſeeing
we  may  ealilydelude  men  ,  and  deceive  our  ſelaes  ,
but  God  we  cannot  deceive.
TV.  Trought  tobe  a  bridleto  vs  to  curbeand  keepe  in  our  cor-
roptions  ,  conſidering  his  cies  piercethe  darkenelſe,  the  mot  (:-
cret  and  hidden  places,  yea  euenthe  ſecret  cloſets  and  cabinets  of
10  our  hearts,
Thusmuch
ofthe  reaſon  :  I  prooceed  to  the  confirmation  or
proofe  of  his  reaſon  ,intheſe  words,  For  whatſoruey  a
man  ſoweth,
that  ſhall  bee  alſo  reape.  Where  the  Apoſtle  prooues,  that  God  will
not  be  mocked  with  _—_  a  _  hee  be  render  to
every  man,  accordivg  to  his  workes,  which  is  (iguified  by  this
"5  allegorical]  ſpeech  of  ſowing  andreaping  ſoofcen  oled  io  Scripture,
as  1,Cor.,9,141.2.  Corinth,  9,6.  in  which  places,  labour  and  colt  *
in  doing  good,  and  beeing.  beneficial,  ſpecially  tothe  Miniſters
of  the  word  ,is  compared  to  /zede;  the  workers  to  eed/men;
the
to  Miniſters  to  whome  this  benefit  is  conterred,  to  therilled  ground:
the
paine  that  accrewes  vnto  them  thereby,  to  the  harveſt,  where-
ith
God  will  reward  them,  and  thae  according  to  their  workes,
is  theggewal  day  of  retribution,  This  metaptior  of  ſowing  ,
doth
elywhere  (vibe  all  the  morall  ations  of  a  mans  lite  ,
23  whether  they  begood  or  evill,  Of  good  ations  Sa/emnnlaith
he
that  ſowerbyigbtronſueſſe  ,  bath  a
ſure  recompence,  Proverbs  11,  18.
Of  evill  aQtjong  beefaith  ,
bee  tbet  ſowerb  rniquitie  ſhall  re  wpr  af-
fufliow,Pronerber,22.  8.  But  here  Paw!  reſtrainesit,to  thoſe  good
workes  of  liberalitie
,  which  are
d  in  the  maintenance
30  ofthe  miniſterie.  And  he  calleth
that  which  is  beſtowed  vpon
the  Miniſters  ofthe  word  ,/e\:d:  ,  which  beeing  ſowne,  doth  re-
compencethe  colt,
40.  (ixty,  an  hundred  fould\:that  ſothey  mighe
not  think  their  labour  loſt,  nor  their  cot  beſtowed  in  vaine,ſcoing
they  were  toreceive  that  which  they  laid  forth,with  aduantege.
$3
Buthereit  may  beſaid,  This  proverbiall  ſentenceis  not  alwaies
true:  for  lornetime  men  ſowe  much,  and  gather  but  little,  Dent  28,  30,
Agxg.1.6,
nay  ſometime  theyſowe,and
reape  not.  Aich,6.rg.Againe
experience  ſhewes  ,  that,that  whichis  ſowoe,  may  degenerate  in-
to  another  kind.  An/.1t  is  not  necetlary  that  proverbiall  ſerten-
4©  ces  ſhould  be  true  at  all  times  ;  and  in  every  particular  :  if  they  bee
true  for  the  moſt  part,  orin  that  for  which  they  are  brought,  itis
ſufficient,as  that  ,  1Larth.1  3.5  7.  A  Prophet  is  not  acceptedin  his  owre
114
countree
