---
page: 487
pdf_page: 509
---
the  Epiſtle  tothe  Galstians.
Chap.
4875+  |
of  good  workes  reape  nothing  but  affliction:  the  wicked  forthe
curſed  ſeedes  of  damoable  lite  »  comfort  and  contentation,  T'o
which  Lan{wer,that  it.is  not  crue,  if  wereltcaine  it  to  the  tearme
of  thizlijeztor  ſaall  menceape-nofas  they  haueſowne\:butit  is  vn-
5.  doubtedly  tnue
gf  the  hieto  cope;  far  tbeiullice  of  God  requires;
'  that  all  ſhould  berewardgd  accordjogto  their  orkes:  Romamer  25)
Hence  therefore  wee  may  gather,  tbat,  ſeeing  men  mul}  reape  as
they  {qwe,and  yet  doenot  reape,natreceiue  their  reward  in  this
God  will  give  to>
li;  that  therejsancther  lite  aſter  tbigin-wbich
4  ??  every  one  as  Ins.  warkeſkhall
be,  atrd  thergforethere
hall  beaiudg-:
ment.  Apd.becauſeche  bodig  was  partakerwith  the  (oulecitberin
doing  good  orevill,it  isjult  likewile  it  ſhgvld  be  partaker  either  of
miſery
or  telicity\:and  therefore  there  ſhall  be  arefurrecion.
1  LL.  044echy,  iT  he  whore'gt  3aby/on  mull  be  rewarded  double.
15  Ap46,18.6./mthe  crppe  that  hee  hath  filled  ta  you,  fill  herthededble.f\nd  -
*  the  Saints  pray.  thas  to;U0d,;Renger  to.  our:  veighbeicrs  ſemets  fold  in
tarbgsy  boſowpe:  Palme  79.12.  1  bergtore  it  ſeemetb  thatſormemen
ſhall  not  bee  iudged  according  to  their  workess  hecauſethey  are
puniſhed  abouetheir  deſerts;  Auſwer,  Shee  is  rewarded  double,  yet
26  notaboue,,  but  according,  to  her  deſerts  zrowe  her  aarble  accor  dmg
ta  her  worker,  v.6;  T  he  meanings  notsthetfheſhouldbepunitbed
twice
as  much  as  (hce  bad  deſctued,  {tor  it  85he  law  ot  Godthat:
themaletactouc  hovld  be  beaten  witha  certen  numberofdhipes,
not  abourybut  according  to  bis  treſpaſſe,{)  eut.2.5.2.)but  thatſheſhould
25  betormented,twileas  much.  as  ſlehad  tormented  others,  Againe,
theſe  phraſes  aud  formes  of  (peech  ofrewaruiyg  dowble  ,  or
ſeurnſold;
lignihe,that  God  will  pay,  wicked  men  home  to  the  tull(  a  defaite
number  beceing  put  foran  indefinite)  as  Gen.  4,1  5.Doubth
(ſe,  who-
Lever
[14ieth  Camſball  bepriw/ſhed  fenen  fold,  Themeaning  is  not,that
the  murtherer  of  Cain  ſhould  bee  puniſhed  {eucn  fould  morethen
he  was  punithed,for  killing  his  brother  Abe/,(forit  ſhold  not  have
beene  0  Freata  (inue  for  a  manto  heue  killed  bin,  as  it  was  for
himto
kill  his  brother)  butthat  hee  ſhould  bee  molt  ſeverely  and
grieuoully  puniſhed.
$571  I  1.  Obie,  Infavtshaue  no  workes  wherby  theymay  be  iud-
ped
Jeviog  they  doe  neither  gogd  norevil,  as  the  Scripture  ſpea-
eth  of  /acoband  E/an,komy.11.T  beretoreallſhallnot  beiudged
according  to  workes.  Anſw,  Theſe  phaſes  of  Scripture,
As  a  man
ſowes  ſoſoall  he  reape  :  eery  one  (hll  recence  accordrg  to  bus  morber,  Ofc,
40  arenot  to  beextended  toal,but  mult  be  reſtrained  to  ſuch  as  baue
workes,and  knowledgeto  diſcerne  betwixt  good  ang  euill,  which
infants  have  not,
For  belides  that  they  are  diſlitute  of  workes,
|  #
they  |
