---
page: 51
pdf_page: 73
sortable_pagination_id: "51"
---
the  Epiitle
to  the  Galatians,
'Chap.1.
G1
perſecution?  anſwer  thus.  \T  here  bee  three
of  faith.  The
firſtcoafiltsia
ewo  things,  knowledge  of  the  Golpel,  and  Aſſo  to
thetrgeth  ofit.  This  faich  the  deuili  haue,and  it  may  belo(t;  and
belecuers  by  this  faith,  may  quitefall  away.  Theſecond  kinde  of
5  faith,  containes  knowledge  ,  alſent,  ataſte,or  ioy  in  the  goodnetle
of  God  ,  azealetothe
word  of  Gud,  and  apparcut
fruits
of  boli-
neſle,  This  faith  alſo(beeing  berter  then  the
former)  may  beelo(t
inchedaics
of  perſecution:  and  beleevers  by  thisfaich,  may  fall
quiteaway.  Z«k.$.  13.  Thetbird  faith,(called  thefaith  of  theeleR)
ro  containes  three-parts,  nanny  the  Goſpel,  aſſent  to  the
truth  of  it,  and  apprehention,
by  wee  doe  receiue  ,  and  ap-
Chriſt  with  his  benefits  to  our  ſelues,or  the  promiſe  of  remil-
of  ſinnes,  and  life  euerlaſting.  This  faith  may  bee  greatly
waſted,
for  things
ining  to  it,  may  be  loſt,  as  boldneſſe  ro
x  5  comevatoGod,
the  {enſeor  feeling  of  ſpiritual
ioy,  and  ſuch  like.
ine,
it  may bee  buried  for  a  timein  the  heart,  and  not  ſhew
ic  lelfe,  either  by  fruits,
or  any  profeſſion\:and
inreſpeRt  ofthe  mea-
fareofit,  it  may  be  leſſened
and  maimed:  and  if  we  reſpeR  thena-
tureof  it,  it  is  asaptco
be  lo(l,  asany  other
ofGod\:for  there
20  is  nothing  by  naturevachangeable,  but  God.  Neverthele(fe,where
this  faichis  in  troth,  it  is  never
by  affli
gp
and  temptatign
put
out  or  exi
iſhed  :  becauſe
God  in  m
confirms
it,  bY  new
grace.  Chri(t
faith
to  Perer,/  have  prayed  for  thee,  that  thy  faith  fule
et,  L»k,22.32,  Andthis  ey
>  all  the  godly,for  God  pro-
2  5  Miſeth
that  rhey  ſha/not  be  ripred
their  flrength,1.Cor.10.13.10-
deed,perſecutors  are  laid  to  deltroy  the  faich  :  becauſe  this  is  their
intent,&  they  indeauour  to  doe  what  they  can;but  God  prevents
theirdeti
eſtabliſhing
true  faich,that  ic  may  oot  vtterly  faile.
Itmay  beobieRed  to  the  contrarie,  onthis  manner,  Thechilde
26  Of  God  may  fall  into  perſecution,  and  denie  Chrilt\:by  this  fall,  be
is
guiltie  of  a  gricuous  offence:  beeing  guiltie,  hee  hath  not  pardon
$offence,and  beeing  without  pardon,  hee  is  without  faith.
Touching  guiltine(ſe,  |  anſwerthus.  The  child
of  God,'  when  hee
falls  ,is  indeed  guiltie:  but  how:  Guiltieio  reſpeR  of  himſelfe,or  as
25  much  as  in  him  lies:  becauſe  he  hach  donethat  which  is  worthy  of
death,  and  he  bath  done  all  be  caa  tomake  himſelte  guiltie.  But  he
is  not  guiltie  to  condemnatioo,becauſe  God  on  hig  part  doch  not
breake  off  the  porpoſe  of  adoption,and  adiudge  him  to  wrath.
Secondly,touching  the  pardon  of  his  offence.  anſwer  thus,  In
40  pardan  there
be  foure  degrees:  the  decree  of  pardon  before  all
worlds:  the  promiſe  ofpardon  inthe  beginning  of  the  word,  The
ſeede
of  the  woman,  &c,  T
he  procurement  ot  pardon  vpon  the
E  4
croile:
