---
page: 510
pdf_page: 532
sortable_pagination_id: "510"
---
5ro
Chap.6:
A  Commentarie
pon
And  afſuredly,  he  that  faioteth  ina  good  courle,  and
gi
over  before  —_—  totheende,is  nn  Nothhi
bi
tilled,and  in  part  ſowed
man,  who  having  plowedand
iveth  over  before  be  have  finiſhedit;  and  ſo,  eit
heate  doth  wither  it,  orthe  nippiog  cold  kill  it,or
the
fow
”.
gg
aifte  deuoure  it.
—  Now  molt  men  are  (icke  of  this  diſeaſe,which  ſhewesthe  great.
nelſe  of  our  corruptions,  aodthat
the  be(t  Chriltians  haye  a
maile  or  lumpe  of  tinnein  them  ,  and  but  a  ſparkeof  graceziathat
they  He  fillomecrgger  womens  hoping  rogunner  on
ine  I  1
ollowingtheirpleaſoree,in  purſuing  |
preferments\:and  yet  are  quickely  wearie
in  duties
of  pietie  juſtice,
and  mercie,albeit  they  baue  an  voſpeakable  reward
annexed  vato
them.
Well,  wbatſoeuer  the  corrupt  practiſes
of  men  be,  let
vs  learne  15
our  dutie  ,to  goe  forward  without  wearinetle,nay  to  do  good  with
chearefulnetle,  as  Pa»/  faith  of  himſelte,Pbilippians  3.  forgetting
that
which  is  behind,and
bimſelfe  to
thet  which  is
befwe.  Lot-m
conlider  that  itisthe  propertic
of  aliberal  minde,  to  dews/e  of
bberal
things,  and  to  continue
bis  liberality,  Eſay.  2.8.Neither  is  this  allngt  to
to  beanie  on  OPER  andcontinuc,but  we  mult  proceede
on
trom  ſtrength  to  (lrepgeh
wg
forth  more  fruite  in
our  age,  Pal
92.14.asthe  Chureh
of
whole  workes
were more  at  the  |
laſt,then  at  the  firſt,for  which  ſheeis  worthily  praiſed  by  our  $+-
viour  Chrilt,  Rewel.2,19.1t  —  >  9  ww  the  fift,  Plus  |  ,
vitrazand
it  ought  to  be  every  Chriſtians  #v9770,to
[trive
to  perfeRti.
—  the  Apotile  exhorts  vs,
To  be  fteadfaſt,  immoneable,
and
not  to  make  (lay  there,  but  to  be  aboundant  4/wates  in  the  wake  C
the  Lordgi.Cor.  15.58.  And  that  we  may  doe  this  indeede,wemu
ſet  this  downe  as  a  certaineconclulion,that  we  wil  not  recoile,por  30
giue  backe,  come  what  will  corhe:  avd  withall  we  mult  labour  to
quicken  our  dull  ard  drowhie  ſpirits,
to  girdevp  the  loynes  of  our
mindes,to  (trengthep  our  weake  hands,  and  cur  feeble  knees,  by
publike  and
private  exerciſes  ofreadiog,  praier,meditation,  coufe-
rence,&c.
Thus  much  of  therule  :  now  followeth  the  reaſon  oftherule,
or  the  motive  toincourage  vs  to  the  performance  of
this  dutieyfo
5  due  ſeaſon  we  ſpall  reape,  if
we  faint  not\:as  he  ſhould  ſay  more  fully,
thus,  Letvs  beaſſured  of
this,  that  continuing  and  1ncrealing  in
well  doing,  our  labouris  not  loſt,  nor  ſpent  in  vaive.  1.  Cor.  15.58.
for  though  wee  imagine  that  we  labour  in  vaine,  and  ſpend  ovr
ſtrength  io  yaine,(as  the  Prophet  ſpeaketb)  yet  ewr  werke  i  _
od
