---
page: 490
pdf_page: 512
---
Chap.6.
A  commentarie  pon
re/hexpoundedin  the  verle  following,wherethe  Apollle  faith,
7;
that  ſoweth  tothe  fleſhſballof
the  fleſh  reape  corruption  :  he  that  ſoweth  to
the  ſpirit, ſÞallof  the  ſpirit  reape  life  enerlating  :  yet  are  they  morepar.
ticularly  and  diftinly  ſet  downeelfewhere  in  Scriptarezas  2./  7,9
6.He  that  ſoweth  [parmgly  ſpall  reape  /p  iringly,
and  be  that  ſoweth  lweral.  5
ly
ſballreape  liberally  :  that  is,the  harveſt  ſhallnot  onely  beanſwera-
'bleto  theſeed,and  the  rewardtothe  workczbut  greater  orleiſe  ac.
cording  to  thequantity,  and  quality  of  the  worke.  For  every  mas
pallrecetne  his  reward  according  to  bis  proper  /abowr.1.(  or.  3.8;Forthe
morethehusbandman  ſowes,the  more  he  doth  vually  reape(
ex-  1?
cept  God  blow  vpon  it,in  curing  the  land,  as  be  didthe  leadlte
who  ſowed  much  and  gathered  little)  and  theletTe  be  ſowes  the
le(ſe  hall  his  croppe  be.Euen  (o,the  more  plentifull  wearein  ſow:
ing  the  (ceds  otgood  works,the  more  we  ſhal  reape\:andthe  more
ſparing  weare,  the  _  ſhall  |
—_—  be.  Hence  I  gather:  Firſt,  '#
that  there  are  —__
rees  of  puniſhments  in  Hell,  according
tFthegreatnes  and  ==  of  linnes  :  for  (oine  (innes  are  but  as
Mmotes,  others  as  beames,ſatth.  7.4  ſome  as  goats,  others
as  ca-
meals,  arrh.2  3.24.  andtherefort  ſome  ſhall  be  beaten  with  many
Hripes,  ſomewithtew,  andit  ſhall  be  ealier  tor  themof  Sodom  *?
and.-Gomorrha  at  the  day  af
ſodgement,  then  for  them  of  Caper-
naum.Secondly,that  thereare  ſundry  Tegrees  of  glory  &
telig
"In  heauen,proportionall  co  mens  works  :  for  all  men  doenot  ſow
alike,  neitheraretheir  workes  equall,but  haue  ſundry  degrees  of  .
goodnes  inthem,and  therfore  there  are  anſwerable  degrees  ofglo-  |
ry  wherwiththey  are  to  be  crowned.  This  truth  is  taught
cl{-where
more  plainly,  as8Dan,  12.3.Theythat  be  wiſe  ſhall  ſhine  as  the  brightneſſe
of  the  firmament:
and  they  that  turne  many  to  right-0uſneſſe,  ſhall  ſine  a;
the  ſtarres  for  mermore,  T  hertoreas  there  ia  greater  brightoes  i0  |
the  (tar,  theo  in  the  firmament  ;  ſothere(hall  be  greater  glory  in  ;
onethen  in  an  other.  1.Cor,  3.8.  Enery  man  ſoalreceine  bu  reward,
at
cording  to  his  owe  labour,  thertore  ſeeing  all  mens  labours  are  not
alike,  cheir  reward  (hall  not  bealike.  Chis  is  furcher  confirmed  by
the  parableotthecalents,  Luk.  1  g.  vherethe  malter  of  the  {eruants  5
doth  proportionate  his  wages  to  their  worke,  making  him  tbat
had  gained  with  his  talentztive  talents,  ruler  over  five  cities,  bim
that  had  gained  ten,ruler  over  ten.  And  wheras  it  may  bel(aid;that
allthe  labourers
in  the  vineyard,  received  an  ©  quall  reward,0amer
ly  a  penny  /zas  well  as  thoſe  chat  wrought  'but  an  houre,  as  th
that  bare  the  burden  and  heate  ofthe  day.l-  an(v  er,  itis  trac
at  oh
ſentiall  glory,  all  the  el2fhill  hauvee<quailgiory\:butit  is  not  tru
of  1ccdenall  glarygthereinall  ſhall  agt  be  <q  uall,  Take  ſundry  /rs
