---
page: 491
pdf_page: 513
---
the  Epiftle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.6.
491
fels
of  diverſe
©,  endealt'therinto  the  ſea,  all  will  be  f6il-
led  with  water,
ſome  teceiye  &  greater  quantity,  others  a
leſſe\:So,all  ſhallbaue
folneſſeof
lnetotds!  ſame  efſential/glo-
ry:  though  in  reſpeR  of  accrdenral/
glory,  ſore  ſhail  have  more,
5  and  ſornelelle.
Secondly,
the  ſcope  of  the
bleis  not  to
bmethroquthyor  glorys  in  the  nerldesromsy  but  that  they
which  are
firlt
,oughenot  to  infultovertheit  brethre,  which
are  not  as  yer  called,  ſeeing
ch
be
ed  before  them,
(<ttheleatt)made  equall  jun  g  pefered,  CEN  Mt
to  concluſion,that
there  ſhall  be  degrees
of  glory  in  beaven,  astherc_
ces
oftotmevt
in  hell,  and  that  as  mens  labours  differ  in
>dner
their  rewards  [hall  be  different  in  greatnes.  Now  mens
the  kindjinthe  quantity  ,
waies;  in
differio  goodnelſe;three
andia  the  gualey,  Inthe  kindzin  that  ſome  aremore  noble  ia  their  _
I5
more  baſe;as
to  curethe  maladies
of  the  ſouleis  a
more
it  w  otkein  it  kinde,thento  curethe  diſeaſes  ofthe  body
i&  -
therefore
it  hath  a  greater  degree'of
led.
'Dan.12:  3:
Theythat  twrne  many  to  rightconſues,
ne
4:  the  ftar:  for  enermore  ,
-  or  manner,  in  that  ſome  are  donewith  greater  loue,
F  ſome  with  letſe:ſome  with  greaterzcale,ſome  with  leiſe:ſome  with
care  &  conſcience  todiſcharge  our  duties;  lome  with  lefſe.
,thoſe  that  are
with  greaterlou?,zeale,care,  and
15  Conſcience  ſhall  receive  a  greater  reward\:tboſe  that  are  done  with
ketſe,a  leſſer  for  ſoisthe  promiſe,  Sweryman  ſpellrecrive
bis
wager  ac
(+
10  buy  own  labowr.1  .Cor.3,8.19
the  quentic,ip  that  ſome  labour
bot  an  hours  othintbewe  the  burdenand  heate  ofthe  day,and  ſo
aecordingto  thegreatnes  or  (malnes  of  their  paines;they  ſhal  haue
yo
{great  or  lefſerreward,  He  bat  had  fo  carefully  emploied  bis  ta-
that
be  gained  wittrit  rep  ot  hers,  was  made  ruler  over  tenne
zo
cities\:and
he  that  had  takenlefle  paines,and  gained  but  five,  was
made  ruler  but  over  five;that  is,  had  bis  reward;  yet  a  letſe  reward
ffableto  hisworke.
;s  "Further,  as  God  doth:  rewnrd  the  good  workes  of  his  ſer-  :
vants,aucording  tothe  ki»d;the  quartizy,  and  quality  :  fo  herewar-
35
+  deth  finHes  not  _  accordibg  to  their  degree  (as  we  bauc
ſame  manoer,according  to  thenature  &  qua-
keardJbut  alſoin  the
tyot  the  finne.  2.  7h!  1.46.11  isamftthing  with  Godtor
a"  lenowto
them  that  trowble  your  Thus  be  threatneth,  that  co  the
be  will  ſhew  himſelfofroward,  Pſal1  8.236,  And,  herbat  ſred-
fteward
0)  Atb  1wiides  blood,  by  man  f\:lt  his  blood  be  ſvedd.Gen.9.6.  And,  all  thar
taks  the  ſv  ord,  foal  periſo  by  the  ſword,  M\:tth,  26.92,
And  ,  be
of  thepoore,  ſpallcry  unto  the  Lord  ;
that  fropparbb  bis  cares  at  the  cry
PY
