---
page: 492
pdf_page: 514
---
Chap.6.
A  Conmentarie  pon
and
be  wil  not  heare  bum,Pro21,13,A06,6
ooo
rears  yoee
"ond
wickedly,aud
mot
agamnſt  thee;
thow  ſpalt  be  ſpoiled  :  and  when  thou  hal
_  32,  5
with  what
the  Aa
1  the  —_  «ke
nn:
19
daies  of  thy  life,  T  bus  Codpuriſhed
Sodomites  i
=="  Lo  for  ou
mi,
C1904.
Fn  Foe
with  fire  from
may  be  ſaid
of
efrntbe
Kings
bauing  the  thumbs
of  theur  hands,&  of  _
cutoff,to  gather
crmmarvade  his  table.ſo
rewarded  him.  /«d.1.7.  As
tots  rome  ber  hon  rm  lon
7-I
mn
the  Lord
in
Gilgal.1,Saw,15.33,  "Tbgs  Godponiſlthe  ae
and  murther  of  Dazid\:for
as  he
another  ——
qpocſonne  th  defiled  bis  wines  m  the  ſight
i)  the
in
verſe  22
theckildeon  gf
Lan  in
ELD
too-
25
liſhnes\:it  pleaſed
Epiſt.3.ad  Cy  7  ini
riac.  Micas
cadentes  de
menſanon  de.
dit,quid  mir  SES
_  wever  ta
cool
30
f  __  gurt4  histhielt,
16.a0d  dn  Hiewss  =
non  accepit?  ——  eftas  &  mil  me(ſuir.  T  bus  bapupiſhe  ſpirityalfor-
nication,with  bode  galltionhouniche  Iſraclitey  wentaiwho-
ring  fr
5  brcame  bax{ots,
and  ther
epi  Se
—_  Andt  is  is
verified  in  the  Church  of  ;;
|  at  this  day  :
e  heathen  to  reprobate
minds,  by  reaſon  of  i
idolatry  ;  fo  bath  hegiueo  tbemvp  ,  as
may  leein  their  vocleapecloy  ters  ,their  Sodomiticall  Stewes,
their  'bealtly  brothelhouſes;  and
the  hike.  Sothey  cs  away
looking  at  tbe  redue(ſs  of  the
wine,  ſhall  have  red  cies  284  pun
40
_of  their  linne.Pro,z
3.30.  Thus  God\:pynihed  thepride
of  the  wo+
"mea  ofleruſalem:  tor  m  ſtead  of  a
ſweet  ſawonr,  there  waz  a
fue:  -
