---
page: 493
pdf_page: 515
---
the  Epiſtle
the
Galatians,
Chap.6.
493
fleadof
irdle,4  rewt
tn  fhead  ef  drefng  of
the  haire,  balines.in  ſtead  of  a
flamacber,a  go-ding
of  ſacketloth
ani  irning,n  ftead  of  beauty.  Eſa.  3.
:4.And  thus  the  Lord  ſhut  vp  every  wombe  of  the  houſe  of  Abi-.
welech,  becauſe  of  Sears  Abrahams  wife.Gen,20.18,  Thos  the  wiſe
Twch,B  _  the  I  ſrachites  wor  ſhipped  ſerpent:  which  had  not  the  v/e
of
reaſon  ,and  wile  beafti  the  Lordſent  a  multrade  of  unreaſonrble  beaſts
wong
thens
for  @  vengeance,  that they  might  knowthat  wherewith  a  man
the  ſame  alſo ſhal  bebe
JYJi/4.11.13,Andthis  maner
iſhing  ſinners
in  their  kinde,/eb  acknowledgeth
to be  molt
»  jolt,  When  heſaith.
7fmine  heart  have  beene  decetned  by  a
woman  ,
w  If  I  bane  laid  waite  at  the  dove  of  my  nerghbour
:  ler  my  wife  prind
vutd  another  man,  and  ttt  other
men
;  0  vpen  ber,
Job,  31.
16.11,
Je,  Firlt,here  we  ſee  the  iuſtice  of  God  in  awarding  the  laſt  ſen-
oay  his  bounty
and  ſcuerity-bis  bounty,  in  recompencing,,
5  tence
men  1bovue  their
delerts  ;'  his  ſeverity,  in  puniſhing  (znoers  ac-
cordiog
eo  their  deſerts,
For
as  he  will  deny  apy  thingjaipſtice
that  denied  to  Dives  a  drop  of  water
to  coole  bis  tongue,  Lukas.
24.25.10  be  will  recompence  x
exp  ef  celd  watery.  Matth.  10.42,  T  bis
y  iotegrity  in  ivudgement  without  partiality,  is
(ignified  by  the  white
throne,Rew.20.11.  and  it  ſeruesas  2  patterneand  example  for  all
lodges  and  Magiltrates  to  follow,in  laying  iudgement  ro  therule,
righteouſnes  to  the  ballance  E/a.28.17.that  isin  bearing  cau-
ksindifferently,and  determining  equally,  examining  them  (as  it
15  were)by  line  and  ſquare,as  the  maſon  or  carpenter  doth  his  worke,
The  Grecians  placed  luſtice  betwixt  Z-o  and  Lebra,  thereby  ligni-
fingthat  there  muſt  not  onely  be  courage  in  executing,  but  alfo
indifferency  in  determining,  T  he  Egyptians  expre(le  the  ſame  by
the  bverog/yphical  Figure  of  a  man  without  hands,  wioking  with  his
jeie,wherby  is  meant  our  vocorrupt  ludge,  who  hath  vo  handsto
receive  bribes,  nor  eyes  to  behold  the  perſop  of  the  poore,  or  re-
ſedthe  perſon  oftherich.  And  before  our
tribunalls  we  commg-
have  the  picture  of  a  man,holding  a  ballance  io  one  hand,  and
alword  in  the  other,  lignifying
by  the  ballance  iult  ivdgement,by
$  the  \word,execution  of  ivdgement.
For  as  the  balayceputteth  no
difference  betweene  gold  and  lead,  but  giveth  an  equall  or  vne-
yall  poiſe  to  them  both,  pot  giuing  a  greater  waightto  the  gold
the  exceVeney  of  the  mettall,  becavle  it  is  nora  letſe  roche
kad  forthe  baſenes
of  it,  becauſe  jt  is  lead.  So  they  were  with  'an
even  hand  to  way  the  poore  mans  ceule  2's  well  as  the  rich.  Bur  it
k  molt  notably  ſet  out  by  ihe  throwe  of  the  how/e  of  Dar,  mentioned
Fſe.122  5,  which  was  placed  in  the  gate  of  the  city  towards  os
un
