---
page: 517
pdf_page: 539
sortable_pagination_id: "517"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
.Chap.6.
life.  Terome  (aith,It  ie
the
propertie  of  true  vertue,
not  to  beginne  well,  Non  cceville,
amth  theſe  Galatians,for  begining  inthe  {4  7-rfcciile
but  to  ende  well,  Paul
ſpirit,  and  endiog  in  the  fleſh  :  and  Chriſt  ſhewes  what  a  ſhameit  "©:
isto  him  roo?  As  tobuild  andcannot  figiſhit:  it  isas  good
never  a  whit,  as  neverthe  better  ;
nay  his  condition  is  better  that”
p  never
began,chenthat  of  [das  whoſenda  was  worſe  they  his  be.
iooing,  Zeit.  3.9,  the  taile  of  the  (acrifice  was  commanded  to  be
offered  vpon  the  altar,  by  which  was  lignibed,that  in  every  good
worke,  we  mult  not  onely  begin,but  continue  init  totheend,  and
10  facrificethe  end  of  it  to  Godzas  well  as  the  beginniog  :  otherwiſe
weloſeourlabour,and  mi(ſeourreward,  theretore  Saint  oh»  bid-
deth  vs  ldokg  to  ory  [elues,that  we  loſe  not  the  things  whi  chwe  haue  done,
but  that  wee  may  receine  full  reward,  2.1obn  v.  $.  The  labourers  in
the  _—  came  at  ſundry  times,  ſomeinthe  morning,others  at
15  thethird,
others
at  the  (ixt,and  ninth,  others  at  the  twelfth  houre
of  the  day,yct  none  received  the  labourers  wages,  but  thoſe  thac
continued  inthe  work  tothe  end,  /at.20.  God  is  Alpha  &.Omeg  7,
and  thereforerequireth  a  good  end  ,  as  wellasa  good  beginning,
and  it  is  ourdutie  not  only  toobey  the  commandementofChrilt,
20  Vemite  ad  mexcome  onto  me,  Mat.11.28.but  that  allogmaxete  in  me,abide
m  mee,  obn  15.4,  for  he  onely  that  contioueth  to  the  end,  ſhall  bee
lued,  Math.24.13.
Further,  whereas  the  Apollle  faith  ,  Feefbill  "yn  if  wee  frunt
net:  It  may  be  demaunded,  whether  the  Saints  doe  fſofaintatany
25  time,that  they  finally  fall  away?  To  which  demaund  Iantwer
ina  word,  that  ==  not,  nay,
they  cannot  totally  and  fix  :{y
from  grace.  For  fit,  if
any  thing  hovld  make  them  tall  a-
way
it  is  inne;  but  they  canoot  linne,  becauſe  the  (ced  of  rege-
neration  and  graceremaineth
in  themn,  1.  /0bx  3.  9,  And  though
20  the  Church  ſleepe;  yet  her  heart  waketh,Camicles  5.2.  Andif  any
thing  make  them  faiot,ic  is  affliction  and  perſecution  z  but  thele
and  all  other  crolles  works  togerber  for  the  beit  wnto  then,  that  loue
God,Romanes,  8.18,  And  therefore  theſe  are  no  hinderances,  but
furtherances  rather  to  their  ſaluation.  Secondly  ,  they  are  builr
35  and  founded  vpOon  the  promile  of  God,  /  will  put  my  ſp1rut  nts  their
hearts,  ſo  that  they  ſhall  not  depart  fram.  me,[crem.,  2.40.  1  ncrercre
Chrilt  doeth  ſo  preſerue  them  by  his  power,  prevent  them  by  his
grace,  guard  and  guide  ther  by  bis  ſpirit,  that  chey#hall  never  fall
away,  andthat  none  (hall  pluckethem  out  of  bis  hand,  ſob»  10.
40  I  addefurther,that
they  are  built  vpor  the  troveth  avg  heelitic  of
bis  promiſe,  God  ts  fanhfall,  and  will  not  ſuffer  you  tobe  tempred  avone
that  you  bee  able,  but  will  g19e  the  1ſne  with  the  temptation,  tht  ye  may
LI  4
