---
page: 519
pdf_page: 541
sortable_pagination_id: "519"
---
519
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap.6.
good  ſtandeth  in  three  things:  the  firſt  concerneth  God,  in  prai-
ling,
magnify  ing,and  adoripg  his  holy  name.  D  avid  had  an
eye
Fn  AR  ke
defired  to  ine  for  _
otherend,but  that  he  miphe
praiſe
God,  O  /et  my  ſoule  live,  and  it  ſpall  praiſe  thee,  T  he  ſecond
5-  concerneth  our  {elues,  in  ſeeRing  thekipgdome  of  God,  and  the
righteouſnelſethercof,  by  making  our  calling  and  eleQion  ſure
by  good,2.  Peter  1.  10.T  hisendot  a  mans  life  Sz/omen  intirnaterb,
when  hee  faith,  Let  ws  bearethe  ende  of  all;  feave  God,  and  teepe  his
Commanndemeuts,for  this  is  the  whole  dutie  of  man,Fceleſ.  12.verſe  7,
19  The  third  concernerh  our  brethren,  indoing  goodvntothem
ſo  farre  fvorth  ”
pollibly  we  can  in  the  compalle  of  ourcalling  :
forit  is  the  end  of  every  mans  calling,  ip  ſeruing  of  men  to  ſerve
brine
and  this  is  that  which  7as7  vrget  Tnthis  place,  to  ber
God,
all  vnto  all.
is
Theſecond  may  beetaken  from  theexample  of  God  himſelle,
Wee  mFt  dor  good  to  them-  that  hate  vs  that  wee  may  bee  the  children
of
our  heavenly  Father,  Alatthew  5.ver.  44.45.  Forwe  aremorecon-
formablevnto  God  in  doing  good  vnto  others  (it  beingan  ellen-
tiallpropertiein  God  to  doe  goodto  wy  man,  ſceing  that  eve-
16
Iy  creature  doeth  drioke,  or  at  thelea(}  talte  of  the  ſweet  cyppe
of
:0ds  gocdneſle,  P/alme  145.v.9.)  then  inreceiving  good  |
them  :  tor  hereceiveth  nothing  trom  vs,as  David  ſaith,  Ay  goodver
reacheth  nos  to  thee,  P(al.16.2,  T  otheexampleot  God  we  may  adde
the  example  of  godly  kings.  Thechiefelt  praiſe  andcommendati-
25  -0n  of  Hezek5ab  and  [ofiabyis  noted  by  their  goodnes.  Concerning
therelt  of  the  as  of  Hezekzah,  and  his  GOODNESSE,  they  are
wiitten—2.Cbro.32.32,  Concerning  the  reſt  of  the  as  of  ofiab
and  his  GO  O  D  NESSE,  doing  asit  is  written  in  the  Law  of
the  Lord,  behold,  they  are  written  —  2.  Chron.  35.26,27.  And
z0-this  excellent  name  of  goodweſſe,  or  bownſulneſſe,  was  (  as  it  may
ſeeme)  by  the  law  of  nations,aſcribed  to  Princes  and  Potentates,
in  that  it  belt  beſeemed  them,
as  in  name,  ſoin  thevertueit  ſelfe,
to  expretſe  the  diuinenature  of  God  by,and  therefore  they  were
called,ivsgymu,  that  is,  bountifullbenetaRors,  or  gracious  Lords,
is  Luket;  25.
The  third  is  drawne  from  teſlimonie,divineand  humane.  Oor
Saviour  Chriſt  aith,/r  54  bleſſed  thing  to  give,  rather  then  to  receiney  +  C1,  27;
Ate  20.3.  that  is,todoe  goodrather  then  to  receive  good,  *  Na  de  pauperum
if
amore,
in  no  properti
254nzen  (aith,  that  a  man  doeth  reſemble  God
good;  And  the  heathen  Oratonr  Demoſthenes  7,  22m;
40  much,as  in  doing
(a)doin  of  good,  and({peaking  thetruth,makes  vs  ip
vld  ſay,that
16%.
Lo4g9e7t  17
molt  like  to  God  bimſelfe.
very,
But
