---
page: 52
pdf_page: 74
sortable_pagination_id: "52"
---
Chap.t.
A  Conmentarie
pon
62
croiſe  :  and  the  donation,or  the  going  of  the  pardon.  Thisdona-
tion  isan  ation  of  God,  wherby
be  gives  &  communicates  Chrilt
vntovs,and  applies  to  our  conſciences  the  remiſſion  of  our  ſinnes.
In  thisdopation,  there  is  required  a  band  to  giue,  and  a  band  to
receive,
T  he  hand  of  God,  whereby  he  giucs,isthe  kord  preached,  5
and  the  Sacraments:  the  hand  toreceiuczi»  our  A
pardon  isnecetſary  :  for  though  finr.es  be  pardoned  inthedecree
ot  God,by  his  promiſe  iv  the  word,and  by  procurement  vponthe
croi'e:  yet  pardon  is  no  pardon  to  vs,till  it  beegiuen  vnto  vs  by
God.  Furthermore,this  giving  is  vot  altogether  at  one  inſtant,  but  ,
it  beginnes  inthe  conver(ion
of  a  (inner,  and  is  often  iteratedin
the  vie  of  the  word  and  Sacraments;to  thedeath.  Pas!  wills  the
Corinthians  reconciled  to  God,  (till  ro  _  pra  Hm  5.21,
And  we  are  taught  euery  day  to  pray
to
God,togiuevs
of  our  Canes.  T
his  giving
18  Ca  conduneal andellote  T)
Conditionall,  when  —_—_  the  pardon
of  (in  vpon  condition.
Thusin  Baptiſme,and
inthe  firſt  converſion  of  a  (inner,all  ones
vihentcnpm  egg
whether  a  man  repent  or  no,  but  vpon  condition  of  future  repen-
tance.  Theabſolute  donatior
is,  when  a  man  repents,
or  renewes  ,,
his  repentance:
for  then  the  pardon  of  (ipne  is  ſimply  and  fully
without  condition,applied  and  revealed
to  the
ence,
When
Daxid  confeſſed  his  finne,  Nethe»,in  the  name  of  the  Lord  ſaith,
Thy  frune  is  forginen  thee.2.  Sam.12,
ow  then  tocometo  the  point,  the  child  of  God  bath  pardon  z;
of  his  9  tr  p———s  waar  hos
promiſe  of  pardon,in  reſpeR  of  the
procurement
pardoa,in
ipeR
of  the  conditionalldonation
of  pardon,  which  is  madein
V2
OE
SP
IR
ptiſme  :  and  he  may  be  laid  to  wantpardon,  in  that  thepardon
of  his  offence
is  not  fully  andabſolute]y  given  him  till  he  recover  ,5
himſelfe,and  renew  hisrepentance.  1t  it  be  here  demanded,what  ©
the  child  of  God  aſkes
when  he  praijesfor  pardon  day  by  day?  |  an-
ſwer,be  praicsfor  ewo  things.  Firſt,  that  God  would  continue  to
ſhew  his  fauour;&  to  impute  the  merits  of  Chrilt  vato  bim,wher-
as  hefor  his  part  by  hisoffence  deſeruesto  bedepriucd
of  all  fauor.  ;5
Secondly,he
aſks  the  giving  of  the  pardon,thatis;that  God  would
certifie  his  conſciencethereof.
T  he  vie.  Sceivg  theintent
of  the  digell  and.  wicked  men,is  to
deſtroy  thefaith(as  itappeares  in  thisplace,and  1a  the  firſt  temp-
tation  wherwith  Satan  atſaulted  Chrillt,  Afarrh.g.)  we  mult  have  a  40
ſpeciall  care  of  our  faith,  And  fr{t  we  mul}  lookethat  our  faith  be
atruc  faith,  leſt  we  be  deceiued,as  the  fooliſh  viegine.Sagadly.ve
my
