---
page: 522
pdf_page: 544
sortable_pagination_id: "522"
---
Chap.6.
A  Commentarie  pou
322
me
be  fill  our  owne,  Pſal.1  12.5.  A  good  man  is
merciful,
eth,and
wi
affaires  =  Hogs  thatis,be  will
diſcreet!  —__
all  his  ations,  as  that  hee  will
keep
bi
within  bis  compalle  ſo  beginning  to  doe  good,as  that
may  continue  :  therefore  the  wiſe  man  [aith,  7»  the  bowſe  of  the
miſe  3
there  ic  a  precious  treaſure,  and
»  but  a  fooliſp  man  denournthe,
Prou:21.20,
All  the  diſciples  that  were  at  Antioch,  ſent  ſyuccourto
the  bretbren  which  were  in  [udea,in
the  great  famine  that  was  in
the  time  of  Claudius  Ceſar;yet  everie  man  according  to  bis  abilitie,
All,
21.
2p.foraccording
to  Paxzrule,  we  mull  wor  ſo
giveytbat  orbers
bee  11
bd  we  our  ſelues  pinched.2.Cor.8.13.
IV.  We  muſtdoeall
the
we  can  pollibly  within
the  cor
paſſe
ofour  callings,  itd  hinder  allthe  evill.  It  will  bee  ſaid,  God
(whole  examdle  wee  areto  follow)
doth  not  all the  good
becan,
neither  doth  he  hinder  all the  evill.  Therefore
we  are  noc
is
doeall  thegood,
or  prevent  all  the  cuill  we  can.  |  anſwer,
particular
we  are  notfo  imitate  the  example  of  God,  and  that
for
three  caules.  Firſt,becauſe  we  areſubie  to  the  law,  7how  ſoul  wt
doe  exil{  that  good  may  come  of  it,Row.3.8,  whereas  God  is  not  bound
not  ſubieRt  wan  Law,no  not  to  his  ownelaw,but  isaboueit,and
16
hath  power
to  diſpence  with  it.Secondly,becaule  beis  able
today
good  out  ofeuill,  light  out  of  darkeneſſe  ;  which  we  cannot  doe.
[  birdly,becauſe  God
is  the  General  mT  Now  thee
grant  ence  betwixt  —_—_—  my  —  -  _
i=
the  particular  good,t0  pi
the
good
that  ma
y  tot
25
uery  one,and  to  binder  alleail  :  whereas  to  theatre  ofthe
rallor  vmwerſall  good,  three  things  appertaine,  Firlt,  t
ſhould
be
good
in  ſome  ==  goodne(ſe.Secondly,that
ſome
things  ſhould
be  better  then  others.  Thirdly,that  thoſe  thingsthat
aredefeRive  in  goodneſſe;thatis,exills,  ſhould  be  ordained
to  the
40
common  good  :  as  in  a  wellordered  houſe,
all  theparts  thereof
are
gantinthek  Fiod:  Secondly,  ſome  better  then  others,  as  Paw
aith,  I»  a  great  bonſe  there  are  veſſells  of  gold  and  iluer
,of  weed
and  fon,
ſome  for  honour
and  ſome  for  diſhmour.2,7im.  2,20.  Thirdly,thoſethat
are  deſtitute  of  goodnellz,as  foker,aranghts,  and  other  like  places  35
(ſcruing  for  baſe,tbough  neceflary  vics)are  ordained  to  the  com-
mon  good  of  the  whole  bouſe,which  it  cannot  want,  And  theres
foreit  the  maſter  builder  (to  prevent  theſe
particular  cvills)  ſhould
leaue  them  out  ofkis  building,  hee  ſhould
preiudice  the  common
good  of  the  whole  houſe,  which  cannot  be  without  ther.
40
T  bus  much  of  the  firſt  part,  vamely  the  duty  :  Now  |  proceede
to  proſecutethe  ſecond,which  ſhewes  ficlt  to  whom  we  mult  doe
good,
