---
page: 504
pdf_page: 526
---
EY
R  7
4onk
pedluppoſedebe;  bue
'HI.:
Reward
not  alway
is  often  free,
for  whereas  it  is  ſaid,  Math.  5.46.1f  you  love  them  that  lone  you,  what
reward  ſhallye  bane?  Itisthusin  Zake  6.34  bat  thanks  ſpallye  bane
by  which  we  (ce  that  reward  doth  not  alway  (ignifiedue
but
ance,  >  >
gracious
-  -  -   thankefulſremembranceand
CO  —_
IV.  Coloſſians  3:24.  Eternall  life  is  called
tbe  rewurd
of  inhers.
fence,whereby
is
lignitied;that
it is  not  given,for
our  workes,  but
becauſe
we  arethe  ſonnes  of  God  by  adoption.  Belermie  an{wars,
that  it  may  be&both  erewerd,and  avinbernance  :  «reward,  becauſe  it
is  given  to  labourers
compact
:  av  inheritance,  becault
it  is  10  |
Eofltoderanes;:  (gait
gife  lol  gioen  without  eget
tranſ{atedveward,
gi
ven
WI
of
_  it  beeing  all  one  with  Ag  «  Saif  ceacheth  vpon  the  7,
piaime,
V.  The  Scripture  teacheth  that  God  giueth  rewards  foure  1;
rreles.  Birlhe gineth
he  giveth  eternalllife,as
LY
y  his  owne  protniſe,  nor  by  their  merit;  when  beyper
|  ſormethe  outward
wotkes  of  the  Jaw,and  leade  a
civill  life
contor-
mable  thereto,as
when  e  Fhabhumbled  himſelfe  before  the  Lord,
1.King.z21.And  this  Goddothtothe
end  be  may
bumane  '#
ſociety,  and  common  boneſtie,  and  thathe  may  tellihe
what  bee
approoucth,  and  whathedifliketh.  LaſHy,  bexgiueth.  good
toc-
_  cefſe  ininterpriſes,  and  attempts,  according
to  bis  owpe  deare,
apd
the  order
of  divine  providence  :  which  merapborically.is
cal
ledareward,  Ezecb/19,v,19.10,  becauſeit  hath  a  Gimilitudethere  50
untoas  when  wicked  menthrough  ignorance,
doe  that  wickedly,
which
he  hath  ju(tly  decreed  ſhall  come  ro  paſle;foffering  them  to
fill  their  houſes  with''  the  ſpoyle  of  the  poare,  w  hich  they  hauc
for  their  worke,  as  a  man  bath  wages  for  his  hone(t  labour,  T  bus
the  ſpoyleof  ludea;is  called  the  bire  or  reward  giver
ro  Tighatb  Pe:  5]
fer  for  his  Syrian  watre.  7/a.7  20nd  thus  the  ſpoyle  of  Egypt,it
aid  to  be  wages  giuen  Nebwobodone/ar,  for  his  ſervice  again(tTy-
rus,
"4
W.,
20349!
ObU!
#1958
Further,
let  vs  here  obſerve  the  different  manerofſpeech  which
the  Apoltle  vſeth;  in  ſpeaking  ofthe  fleſh  and'of  the  ſpirit.  ,  Of  #
theformer  he  ſaith,  Herhat  (owerh  to  birfl-,  &c,  Ot  the  latter,  He
that  ſoweth  to  the  ſpirit  not  to  his  ſpirit,  by  which  is  ſignified,that  _
