---
page: 527
pdf_page: 549
sortable_pagination_id: "527"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.6.
327
re  ofour  kinred  inthe  fleſh,who  aretherefore  called  «w»;,becauſe
dw  doe  more  oeerely  concerve  vs,as  being  linked  vnto  vs  by  the
bondofnature,  T  hey  that  arg  of  our  kinred,
are  to  egepaneds
and
relicuedof  vsin  thethicdplace,ifthey  bee  of  the  bouſhold  of
5  faith;otherwiſetheSaintsof  Gad,which  arencitherkith
por  kinne
vato.  va,are  tobe  preferred  before  them.  Fourth]y,of  traggers  2nd
forreivers,weareto  doegood  to  the  rife  before  others.  Fiftly,
ag
lellywerma?  bebeneticiallts
af,
whether  friends  or  focs,  of
kinred,
gerz,  ofthehouſe  of  God,or  otherwile,as  God
lapravdenc  ſhall  offerthem.yato  vs;  for  ſo  Pas!  faith,  I.
40  in
mul}
$904  unto  all  men,  1t  will  be  ſaid,  we  are  toloue  all  men  a-
like  ({eeipg  we  mult  love  our  neighbours  as  our  ſelues)  and  there-.
fore  wee  mult  doe  good  to  all  men  alike,  not  reſpeQipg  the  faich-
all  morethen  others.  .I  anſver,  our  love  of  our  brethrep,  is  leſſe
15  or
greater,citheria  reſpeR  of  theobieft,  in  wiſhing  a
greater  or  a
leſle  good  vatothem:  and  thus  we  mult  loucall  men  alike,  in  wi-
ſhing  tothemeternalllife,  :  oria  reſpeR  of  the  intention  of  ow  lowe,
in  having  a  greaterdelire  ofthe  good  of  ſome,then  of  otherſomne:
and  thus  we  are  not  bound
to  loue,or  todoe  good  toallalike.  For
$0  25  S.  Bernard  ſaith,  Mchari  wm  wor  affefins,  indigentiori  major  eff:  lus
tribnendig,
This  doQriocinueſted  with  the  former  examples  ,  may  ſhame
the  baſe,  ſcrvile,  and
beggerly  liberalitie  of  the  common  ſort  of
men,which  profefle  the  Galpel,whoſe  hands  are  tied  to  their  pur-
25  les
heir  hearts  locked  to  their  chel(ts,  wbo'  areſo  extreamely
hey  neither  doegood
to  others,  nor  yet  tothem-
cond
+  them  whicb  are  ſovnnaturall,
etalldutie  —_—  kiored  and  acquaintance
in  the
Thirdly,thoſe  that  will  doe  good  ronove;  but  to  thoſe  that
$0  have  donegoodtothem  :
this  is  right  the  Phaciſies  fighteovuſnes,
tolove  our  Fiends,and  hate  our  al  py  2h  of  the  Pub-
licav,  to  lend  tothoſe,  of  whom  they  looke  for  the  like.  Laſtly,
thoſewho  are  ſofull  of  the  poiſon  of  maliceand  revenge,  that  be-
ing  ooce  incenſed,they  can  never  be  appealed,  till  they  crie  quit-
35  tance  with  thoſethat  offend  then.
The  third  thing  to  be  coafidered  inthe  words  ,  is  the  circum.
Nance  oftime  pre  mwſt  dve  good  16  all;while  we  bare  time,
Here  ſundry  points  areto  he  obſerved,
I.  If  wee  muſt  doe  good  while  wee  haue  time,wemult  make  a
profitable  vie  of  ourtime;  (the  rareſt  iewell  and  greate(t
49  holy  and
of  alleacthly  treaſures)  becauſetime  will  ngt  alway  laſt;  and  there-
fore  wee  mull  take  time  whileit,is  time,  ſeeing  time  and  tide  will
=”
Mm
farty
