---
page: 528
pdf_page: 550
sortable_pagination_id: "528"
---
Chap.6,
AConmentarie  upon
tarry  for  no  man.  Let  vs  conlider  what  a  ſharne
it  is,  that  the
children  of  this  world  ſhould  be  wifer  in  their  generation  then  wee,
who
eo  ſcluesto  be  thechildrenof
The  Marrineror
(ea-farivg
man  who  obſerves
winde  and
weath
the  oppor.
cyvity  of  the  time:  the  traviler
or  way-faring  man  takes
day  before  5
bim,and  travaileth  while  it is  light.  The  Smith  Tiiketh  che  yron
while  it  is  hotsfor  whenit  is
irccolagzo  ite  The
Lawyer
eaketh  bigjime,  fo  wit,
the
Tear
for  entertaining  of  his
Clients,and
following  of  his  ſuits:  for  when  the  Tearme  is  ended,
his  timeis  gone.  Nowit
is
alway
Tearme  time  with  Chiillians,
eycry
preſcntday,  eventhis
time,  is  their  Tearmetime  :
therefore  if  wee  will  not  ſhew  our  ſelues  more  careletſe  and
oe;
ligent,  nay  more  abſurdly  fooliſh,  ordeſperatly  madde  then
men,we  mult  take  the  opportuvity  thatis  offered  to  doe  good;and
vie  the  precioustime  which  God  inmercy  affordeth  vs,to  hisglo-  #1!
ry,our  comfort,and  the  good  of  others.  Time  and
of
doing  good,  is  hieroglyphically  reſembled  by  the  bead
of  8
man
that  hath  locks  of  haire  before,  which  a'man  maytake  hold  of,  hat
hath  none  behind  z  whereby  is  ws
nrm——
when  opportvoityis
paſt,there  is  no  poſſibility  left
to  doe  good  Wermult  nott
ba
let  ſlippe  any  good  occaſion,  but  take  hold  of  it  at  firſt,  when  it  is
offered,  Hence  itis  that  the  Apoltle,  Hebr.  3.13.  biddeth  vs  exborr
one  anther  gwbile  i#145alled  to  day.  And  the  wiſe  ran,  Prev.3.28  Say,
Tot  to  thy  nergbbour,gee
and  come  agame  and  tomorrow  will  I
give
theeyf
wt  Tf  be  may  ye,
wx
hy
#5:
thy
delay?
imm,may
be  diſcoura
mail  oe
hurdenedugea
|  h  GFA  CR  harachs
in.  the
Goſpel,  bee  ſaddain
awa
riches,  _
riches.
ops
CojoorLialeth  vs  Satlebnr  ,”
wee
taken  from  thee.Our
baze  light.Tob.13.;  5.
30
TI:  If  we  moſt  doe
while
we  bave  time,  we  mult  obſerve
the  Apoltles
golden
rule,  Epbeſ.5.16.  Reedense  the  r1me  +  which  is
hothingelle;bet
ſo  to  employ
it,and  vie fHe
beneht  ofit,us  that  we
ſuffer  itnot  to  ſlippe  away  from  vs  without  froite  or-profir,  either
For  Nlothandiidleces,or  by  reaſon  of  vaine
and  trap(itory
pleaſure,  57
orother  occaljons  of  this  life:  butito
gaine
cbuz  time  we  former]
loſt  by  ocgligence,  with  double
diltgence,  yea  vo
fenige  _
ro
the  loiſe  of.our
eaſe,  our  pleatures,  opr  profes.”
And  we
ſhaft
eter
praQtiſe  this  dutie,it
we  —__  that  time  is  ſhort,  preewns,
prevocable:  la  organs  therefore  to.bee  guided  by  igence  :  it.40
precioxs,  and  thereforeto  be  redeemed  by  an  high  eſtivateand
is
accauot  af  ityjn  no  being  too  lauiſh.  of  it  :  in,  belfowing  it  ypon
CY
our.
