---
page: 529
pdf_page: 551
sortable_pagination_id: "529"
---
the  Epeſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.s.
$29
our  friends,  not  ypon  our  enemies  :  in  placing
it as  a  iewell
in
our  golden
and  wearing  it  in  our  new  garments,  as  the
robes  of
Chrilt
his  righteouſneſſe,2nd
not (as  a  pearle  ina  ſwines  ©
ſnowt)in
the  rotten  ragges  of  ſinne  aod  wickedneiſe.  Laftly  itis
5  irrewecable,and  therefore  itis  to  beredeemed  by  taking  the  oppor-
_——_—
111,  Pew  commanding
vs to  doe  good  while
we  have  time,
would  have  vs  know  times  and  ſeaſons  ;
to  oblerue  the  fhortnes
oftime,to  Bum  I
LIED  I  wile-
1*  Jome.  The
and  obſcruing  of  time,
is  a  ſin
ore  Wy  wir  Tenn  rin  rr  porn
you  648  diſcerne  the  face  ofthe  this,  and can  yee  not  *  diſcerne
the  =  ct
ny
the  timer  ?  Lak,  12.36,  why*  diſcerne
ye  not  thus  time  ?  the
preferre
the  very  bruite beaſts  before  his  people,  becauſe  they
ls  their
and  ſcaſons,  whereas  his  people  knew  not
the  time  of  mercy  and  grace,  which
was  offered  vato  them.  Even
the  Storks  in  the  ayre  kyoweth
ber  appointed  rimer,  the  tmrile,  and  the
crave,
ond  the  ſwallow,  obſerne
the  time  of  their  comming
but  my  people
10  hnoweth
wor  rhe  indgement  of  the  Lord.  ler.$.7.  And  Chrilt  threatneth
leruſalem,that
one  (tone  ſhould  not  beleft  vypon  another,  becanſe
——  Earned  oy
viſtaties,
Luk,  19.44.  And  verily  of  all
and
is  is  the
»  hotto  know  theday  of
acceptable
time,the  day
of  faluation,  when
riſiog'early
and
calling
vs  by  themioiſtery
of
out  his  hands
all the  day
ow,  10.21.
For  if  he  ſtand  at  the  doore  ofour  hearts,and  knocke  by  the  ſound
of  bis  word
by
the  motion
of  his  irit
inwardly,  by
open  nor  lilten
vato  him,  we  ſhall  Rand  with  the  Hve  fooliſh  vie-
gins,
and  knocke
at  bis  mercie
and  (ay,  Lord,  Lord,  open
v#7  v:,when  it  will  be  too  late,
heaven  ſhall  be  ſhut  agaioſt
vs.  Math.25.11,12.For,for
this  cauſe  among  others,they  arecalled
F5  fenlh  virgins,  becauſe  they  contidered
not  che  tn  of
he
bride
Here
ic  will  beſaid;obleruingof  time  is  forbidden.Ga/.4  19.7ece
obſerue  dayes,  and  timer,  and  monethr,  and  yearet,  |  am  afraid  of  you,
leaft  1
bane  ſpent
#»  you  labour  in  vaine,  Anſw.  There  is  a  twotold
oblerving
of  time  geod,and  evil
awful,  and  vnlanfub,  Volawigll
and  luperſttiout.iaeither  /emybor  Heathenſs:  the  [ewiſhy  and  fu-
ſtirious  obſervation  of  times,  is,  when  religion  is  placedin  the
of  them,  in  an  opinion  that  they  bindthecooſcience  to
ceping
—_
Mm  2
the
