---
page: 508
pdf_page: 530
---
Chap.6.
A  commentarie
pon
5o8
ofthe  (pirit
life  everlaſting,v.  8,  therforeno  man  oughtto  be
wearie  of  well
doing.
[tcon(iſteth  of  two  parts\:of  a  rule,or  precept,
inthe  former  partofthe  verſe,  Let  vs  not  therefore  be
wrary  of  wel do-
:»g\:and  areaſon
of  the  rule,  ora  motive  to  incitevsto  the  perfor.
mancethereof,
in  the  latter  part\:for
in  dine  [caſon  we  ſhall  reape  ,  if  we  5
faint  ot,  [a  the  rule,the  Apoſtle  ſpeakes  that  plainely,which  in  the
former  verſes  he  had  deliuered
more  ob(curely\:for  bere  heexpoſids
bimſclfe,what  be  meant  by  ſowing  tothe
ſpirit,  namely  doing  of  yeod  ,
or(asitisinthe  next  verſe)  doing  of  geod  wnto  all;which  may
peareby  that  which  followeth,we/ball  reape,
if  we  faint  not,  thatis,  19
we  ſhall  reape  the  truit  of  that  which  we  haue  ſowne  tothe  ſpirit,  if
we  faint
not  :  therefore  toſowtothe(pirit,  is  nothing  els,  but  to
doe  good.  Now  by  welldewny,  the  Apoſtle  meaneth
not  onely  the
outward  worke,
our  neighbour  is  furthered,helped,relie-
ued  z  but  the  doing  ofix  alſo  in  a  good  manner,and  toa
goodend,
15
ſo,as  it  may  be  a  good  worke  indeede,not
onely  profitableto  our
neighbours,and  comfortableto  our  ſeluer,but
bleto  God,
»  This
is  a  moſt  neceſlary  precept  :  for  moſt  men are  foone weary  of
a  good  courſe,  like  to  theſe  Galatians,  who  began
in  the  Spirit,  but
beipg  weary  of  that  walke,turned
aſide,and  made
an  end  wn  the  fleſb.  10
Gal.3.3.Like  Ephraimand  [ndahywboſe  goodnes  was  as  a  morming  cloud,
and  4;  the  morning  dewe  which  vaniſbeth  away.Hoſ.5.4,
T  his  weariſom-
neſſein  well  doing  hath  ſeaſed  vpon  the  molt:  even  vpon  all  drow-
lie  profetſours,  (which  arethe
ſt  part,  )as  may  __—_—  by
this,ia
that  ſome,  if  they
be
but  a  quarter  of  an
too
25
long,  or  aboue  their  ordinarietime  ,
are  extreamely  weary
of  bea-
ring  the  word.  And  as  for  duties  of  mercic,  and  liberality
vp  1niuries,and  tolerating  wrongs,  they  are  ready  to  make
an  end
as  ſoone  as  they  begin.  And  as  for  Praier  and  thanſgiuing,  and
other  parts  of  the  worſhip  of  God,molt  men  ſay  in  their  hearts  with  zo
the  old  lewes,what  profit  is  it
that  we  keepe  bis  commandements,and
thet
we  walke  humbly  before  the  Lord  of  hoſts  {  Malach.  3.14.  nay  they
count  it  a  wearineſſe  vato  them,  and  /awſfe  thereat,  THalach,1,13+
Hence  itis,  that  the  Holy  Ghoſt  is  ſo  frequent  in  ſtirring  vs  vp  to
the  performance  of  all  good  duties,with  alacrity  and  chearefulney  35
and  ſo  often  in  rouling
vs  from  that  drowlines  and  deadnes,wheare-
with  we  are  coco  Lake  18.1,  Our  Saviour  Chriſt  pro-
pounds  a  parable  to  this  end;to  teach  vs,chat  we  onght  alwaxes  to  prom,
and  wot  to  waxe  fant Eph.  3.13.1  deſire({aith  Pavl)that  ye  fait  not  at  my
tribulations.2.T  beſſ.3.1  3,  And  yebrethren,be
not  weary
in
well  dong.  And  ©
{o  in  this  place,  Lee  vs  not  therefore  be  wear  y  of  well  doing.
Now  the  reaſons  which  make  men  ſo  weary  of  well  doing,  are
dos
in
