---
page: 535
pdf_page: 557
sortable_pagination_id: "535"
---
the  Epiflle
to  the  Galatians,
Chap.6.
335
compariſon  of  this.  And  he  wrote  larger  Epillles  toother  Chor-
ches,  as  to  the  Romanes,Corinthians,&c.  but  by  his  Scribes,not
with  his  own  hand.  Therforeſceiog  chis  is  the  longelt,and  largeſt
letter  that  ever  Pax  writ  with  his  owne  hand,  it  ought  to  be  more
5  regarded,
and  better  accepted  :  5o  that  as  his  paines  were  greater
in  writing,  ourdiligence  ſhould  bee  greater  in  reading  and  obſer-
viog  thelame.
I  bis.  ſhewes  Pax/:  greatcare  ofthe  Churches,
not  onely  when:
he  was  preſenrt,but  when  he  was  abſent.  How  painefull  he  was  be-
19  ingamong  them  to  winne  them  tothe  Goſpel,  how  fearefull  when
hee  was  abſent  fram  thernyle(t  their  miods  ſhould  beelcaucned  by
falſe  teachers:  how  faithfull  both  preſent  and  abſent.
And  it  may  ſeruc  as  a  preſident  toall  Paſtours,  having  cure  of
ſoules,to  vic  thelikediligence  and  conſcience  in  their  Miniſterie
15  that  being  abſent  in  body  from  their  charge  vpon  necelfary  occa-
lions  (as  Paw!  was)  yet  they  would  be  rreſenc  in  ſpirit  with  them  :
&  preleot  by  their  letterszthat  ſo  they  may  teltifie  roalthe  world,
that  they  haue  a  greater  care  of  the  flocke,then  ofthe  fleece,
It  further  teacheth  vs,that  it  the  Mioiſter  being  caried  with  diſ-
10  creet  zeale  forthe  good  of  the  Church,  goe  further  either  in  word,
or  writing,then  he  intended,or  is  thought  ht  by  ſome:
(as  it  ſeemes
Pax!did  in  this  place,  tor  what  peeds  this  large  letter  (may  ſome
fay,)  a  ſhorter  would  baue  dune  as  well  )  that  weare  not  to  cevſure
him,or  limit  &  preſcribe  him.  It  had  bin  a  great  fault  in  the  Galati-
25  ans,ifthey  had  found  fault  with  Pax  tor  his  largelerterzand  inthe
diſciples  and  lewes  if  they  ſhould  have  blamed  his  long  Sermon,
whichcontinued  at  one  time  tram  morningto  pight,  Af;  28.23.
at  another  time,  from  thecloling  of  the  evening  til  midnight,
Att;
20,7.  Andſoitisin  many  bearcrz,who  are  toocurious  and  (trit  in
20  preſcribing  and  limiting  their  teachers  tothe  time  ,  longer  then
which  they  cannot  paticotly  endure.  And  in  [tinting  them,  in  vr-
his  Epi-
ging  this  or  that  point,in  ſayiog  hee  milled  his  Rhetoriche,
mou:  was  too  long,he  was  ouerlcenein  dwelling  to  long  vpon  the
point:  it  had  bin  better,a  word  and  away,&c.
Fw
His  ſecondargument  is  taken  from  the  in{trumental}cauſe,
35
*In  hac  Epi.
that  he  wrote  rt  with  bis  owne  hand,  *  Hawuneſaith;it  is  the  opinion  of
ola  ficur  tra-
the  DoRors,  that  Pa«/  wrote  notthis  whole  Epiltle  with  his  owne  |
unt  Do&Qo-
hand,  b&Penely  from  henceto  theend  :  .
which  opinion  is  con-  res,ab  hoclo-
futed  by}  gvery  text,7ou
[ce  bow  large  a  /etter{
AVE  WRIT:  co  viq;  ad  fie
wwme  ownie  band  :  ſpeaking  of  the  whole  Epiltle,inthe  2<mpropria
4  TEN
he  manu  ſcrif  lit=
time  paſt:  or  if  of  any  ove  part  more  then  of  another,  of  t
former  part,  ratherthenof  the  laiter,  Secondly  ,  his  allertion  is
not.
