---
page: 536
pdf_page: 558
sortable_pagination_id: "536"
---
535
Chap«6:
A  Commentarie  pon
not  truesfor  (if  we  except  [erome)  none  of  the  Ancients  (  as  [  take
obo  bmp  "yi  it)  are  of  that  opinion.  Not  Þ  4mbroſe,who  faith,  Where  the  whols
fm  dici  con.  '
writing  is  bisowne  hand,therecanbe  no  fallpoed,  Note  C  bryſoſtome,who
lnceteris
faiths  To  thereſt  of  bis  Epiſtles  he  aid  ſubſcribe,  but  this  whole  Epiftle  he
ſublcridebat
writ  himſclfe.  Not  Primuſine,vlir  pvc  word  per/cr1p/ir,that  he  writit  5
1c  rotm
through  with  his  owne  hand,
Not  4  Tbeodoret  ,  affirming  that  it
CI  ol  ſeemes  Paul  writ  the  whole  Epiſtle,  Not  ©  Th\:opby/att,who  bripgetbin
«*dem)hanc
Pan{ſpeaking  tothe  in  this  manner;  /  1m  enforced
towrite  this  E.
who  calls  it,  14.
piHle  mto  you  with  mine  owne  band.  Not  O  ecumentizxs,
»  Ig  _
54605  emoralayy  an  Epiltle  written  with  his  owne  hand.  Not*  As.  16
e  Efiſcmmi.
oper  ſe/me,  who  paraphraſing  the  text,  ſaith,  it  isall  one  as  if  he  had  (aid,
5:  compultus  7
bug  Epiſtle  [  writ  with  mine  owne  hand,  And  a  little  before,  Not  with
ſum  tamen  ve?  rhe  Seriber
hand;  but  with  mine  owne hand  :  (  albeit  Anſelme  cannot  ſo
prejudice  hisafſertion,who  lived  long  after  him.)  Notthe  author
a  v03  Epilt.
Ofthe  Commentary  vpon  the  Epililes  aſcribed  to  /erom,7om.g,for  g  5
f  Epiltolam
hevpon  the  2.7heſ.3.17.Taith  plainely,  8  ich  theſe  words  hee  (ub.
iam  ſcripfh
"   ſeriburalthis  Epiſtles,exceprimg  that  to  the  Galatians,  which  bee  writ  from
=_<
the  beginning  t0  the  end  with  bis  own  hand,  And  vpon  theſe  very  words
Non  Notarti
which  we  now  entreat  of,  Þ
See  how  /  am  not  afr  ard;  which  of  late  time
g  His  11bis
omnes  FpIROls  þ  are  written  with  mine  owne  hand.  (Where  by  the  way,  wee  may  ob-  16
ſerue;that  ſeromeis  not  theauthor  of  thoſe  Commentaries,  being
excepta  Gala-
ſocontrary  tobimſelfe.)  This  1  confeſle  isa  light  matter,and  not
ee  T—
propriaper-
tobe  (food  vpon,  were  it  pot  that  ſame  are  too  baſtieto  ſwallow
whatſoever  comes  in  their  way,  vnder  the  title  ot  the  Defoxr;,  It
Trcelligies
mult  therfore
be  as  acaxeat  vnto  v5,not  to  be  too  credulous  in  be-  25
qui  non  ti-
rms  mes  leeving  every  one  thatſhallauouch  this  or  that  to  be  the  opinion
of  the  Fathers,no  though  it  be  affirmed  by  a  Father,  eſpecially  by
aper  ſcrifi,
ſuch  a  one  as  draweth  neere  the
dregs,as  Hawme  doth.
It  is  certen  then,that  P  a«/  writ
this  whole  Epiltle  with  his  own
hand  :  the  reaſons  are  theſe.  Firſt,that  it  might  appeare  voder  his  39
hand,  that  he  was  no  changelivg,  butthe  ſame  man  that  he  was
circumcifon,  or  the  obſeruation
before,  in  that  he  did  not
of  lewiſh  ceremovies,as  the  falſe  Apoltles  ſlandered  bim.Ga/.  5.11.
Sggondly,that  this  his  letter  was  not  counterfaited  by  acother,and
ſent  in  his  namezas  thefalſe  Apoltles  might  have  obieQed,and  the  z5
Galatians  ſuſpeRed.  Thirdly,that  hemight  re(tifie  his  lincere  love
towards  them,and  how  he  did  (as  it  were)  trauaile  in  paine  of  the,
till  Chriſt  were  formed  in  them,  ſhunning  no  labour  that  might
further  their  ſaluation,
We  may  hence  further  obſerue  a  threefold  difference  of  the  49
hookes  of  Scripture  in  the  new  Teſtament.  Some  were  neither
pollle,nor  ſubſcribed\:as  the  Goſpel  of  24-4e,and
written  by  an  f
ik
