---
page: 515
pdf_page: 537
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.6.
(1  —
doth  ;  7  /#oked  for
loe  wilde
grapes,  E[a.5  4  Fourthly  he  ex-
eReth  our  ame
Luk.  13.7,
Behold,
ares
three  yeares  haue  T  come  and  ſought  fruit  on  t
tree,  and  finde
woe,  Fiftly,  the  Lord  ſuffered  the  manners  ol
aclites  tourtie
5  yeares  in  the  wilderoe(ſe.P/a.95.  10.  47.1
3,1  8.5ixtly,t  he  lopg  (uf.  irrmroipaorinoc
I  Epiſt.  3.20.)did  patiently  expetthe
feraace  of  God(as  Peter  faith,.
converſion  of  theold  world,  allthe  while  the  Arke  was  in  prepa-  tvci:
ring  for  the  ſpace  of  a»  hundred
and  rwentie  ores.  Senenthinybe  eX-
the  Canaavits,and  Amorics,  for  the;  pace  of  fowre  hundred,
19  yearer,yea  he  ſuffered  all  Gentiles  to  wanderintheir  owne  waies,  &
anity
of
their  minde  almoſt  for  chree  thenſend  yeares  together,
AR-14.15,  Nowit  God  bee  fo  patientin  expeRing  our  amend-
ment  from  day  today,from
yeare  to  yeare
z  w
he  to  bepaticnt
inexpeRing
the  accompliſhment  of  his  pro
s  day  after  day,
15  and  yeare  after  yeare,as
we  ate  commanded,  Habac.2.3.7howgh  the
viſion  tarrie,yet  waite
for  it,  forut  ſhall  ſurely  come,and  ſhallnot  tay  :  and
thoogh  i  be  long  before  we  reape  any  fruite  of  ourlabours,yet  let
vs  with  patienceexpeditfor  in  due  ſeaſon  weſhallreape,if  we  faint
20  Pot,  For,if  God  wait  vpon  vs,not  for  his  ownegood,  but  for  ours
what  a  ſhame  is  it;that  we  willaot  waitevpon  bim,  in  tarrying  his
good  leilure,  for  our  owne  good?  The  dumme  andſen(les  creatures
may  ſet  vs  to  ſchoole  io  this  point  :  for  they  expe  with  «  fernent  imugenttuirne.
bon
25  Aefire  to  be  delinered
from  the
dage  of  corruptioninto  the  glorious  liberty
20,and  as  the  word  (igni
cth,  they  ex-
of  the  ſonnes  of  God,  Rom.  8.1  9,
pet  with  a  onging  deſire,
even  with  cbraſting  forth  their  beads,as  the
ſoner  that  is  condemned  doth,  who  eftſaones  putteth
head  out  of  the  window,ia  a  continuall  earneſt  expeRtati-
on  of  the  gracious  pardon  of  the  Prince.1tis  our  partsthereforeto
waiteas  Daui4did,who  faith  of  himſelfe,P/a/.69.3  [am  wearie  of  my
crying
my  eyes  faile  me  whilſt  I  waite
for  my  God.  Forit  we  giue  ouer  our
patient  expeRingand  faint  in  our  minds,ſeekingtoanticipate  this
VE  TIME,this  period  which  God  bath  prefixed  in  bisvachaoge.
able  will;(more  immutablethen  thelawes  of  the  Medes  and  Perli-
ans)athoaſand  to  one  but  we  runne  for  helpe,  either  tothe  witch
nder,as  Saul  did,  z.Sem.2  8,0ttothe  wizzard  of  Pethor,as  Balack
did,;Nwmb.z  2,0r  tothe  ſorcerer  or  figure  fliager  of  Babe  las  Nebs>
chadnez.z.ar  did,Ee<rk,2  1.21.07  if  all  theſe  faile,  (as  commonly  they
doe)
we  either  breake  out  into  open
blaſphemie,  4)  the  King  ot
Iſrael  dig,  z.K
h  of  the  Lord,  ſhowld  [  _
6.33.  Behold  this
of  diſcontent,  we  Plays  |
attend
on  the  Lord  any  tonger7  or  inthe
the  deſperate  part  of  Razez,and  lar-violent  hands  vpon  ourſe
ues.
3.  Macchab,14.41,
oY
The
