---
page: 516
pdf_page: 538
---
Chap.6.
A  Commentarie
70n
5Is
The  third  thing
to  beecon(idered,  isthe  condition  required  on
our  part,that  we  may  reapein  duetime;ſet  downe  in  thele  words,
"ro  kx2.v  (ants
'  #f  wefaintner.T  he  wores  1m  the  originallare  thus  :  weſhall  reapein
*  (Decumen
duetime,xor  f.unting:  which  may  be  (ard  are  of  *  ſome)  taken  ina
in  hunc  lo-
cum,&  alij.
doubleſence:  either  as  apromiſe,or  as  a  condition.  As  a  promiſe,thus;  $
If  we  be  not  weary  of  well  doing,weſhalreape  in  due  ſeaſon  with-
outall  fainting  and  wearinefle,  eitherto  the  body,  or
miride;that
is,
we  ſhallreape  withallioy  and  comfort,as  it is
P/al.12  6.4  ,6,  They
thit  ſow  mtearer.ſtallreape  m  ioy:  and  they  that  went  weeping  and  cared
precious  ſeed,  ſhall  come  againe  withion  and  bring  their  ſheawes  with  them,  10
AS  4  condition  that  if  we  continueconftant  in  wel  doivg  totheend
without  fainting,we  ſhallreape  iv  the  timetbat  God  hath  appoin.
red\:andin  this  ſenſeit  is  to  be  taken  inthis  text,to  wit,comditionaly,
as  it  is  welltrat(lated,rf  we  farce  not.
Weeare  furtherto  conlider,  that  there  is  a  double  fainting,one  1;
of  the  bodie,  another  of  the  minde.  T  he  bodily  fainting  which
commeth  by  labour,and  toyling,is  not  here  meant;ſeeing  it  doth
nothing  impeach  the  goodnetle  of  the  worke,  (itis  an
rather  of  the  ſoundnetle  andlinceritictbereof  :  )  but  theſpirituall
faioting
is  that  which  is  to  befeared,  becauſe  it  maketh  ourlabour  t0
all  io  vaine.  Andthisfpirituall  fainting  is  twofold  :  the  frlt  is;the
Nacking  and  remitting  ſomewhat  of  our  courſe,and  this  hath,and
doth  befallthe  Saintsof  God,  as  we  may  ſee  in  the  example  ofthe
Chorch  of  Ephelus,»bich
left  ber  firit  lone,  Apoc.  2.  4.  Yea  all  the
Saints  of  God  have  their  rwrbida  mternal/a,troubled  and  diſtempe.  5
red  hts,ſometime  in  the  full,  ſometime  in  the  wane,ſcmetime  2ea-
lovsand  forward  in  the  ſeruice  of  God,lometimeagaine  heavy  and
backward,&c.
T  he  ſecond  is  ſuch  a  faintipg  and  languiſhing  ,  that  we  cleane
2iue  uerour  courſe,of  which  Pas!  ſpeaks,2.Cor.4.16.T  kereforewe  30
famt  not,  but  though  our  outward  mas  periſh,yet  the  inward  man  i  renew-
ed  daily.  Andtheauthor  tothe  Hebrews,we  moſt  conſider  Chriſt,who
endured  [nch  ſpeaking  againſ}  of
ſinners,/eſt  we  ſhould  be  wearied,
and  faim
in  oxn{oules,  Hetr,  12,3  ,  And  againe,v.  5.  Defpiſe  not  the  chaſteniny
of
the  Lord  menher
fart  when  then  art  rebnked  of  bien,  -T  bis  fainting  is  53
meant  in  thisplace.
Whereas  5.  Pau/(aith  we  ſhall  reape,  if  we  ſaint  not:  he  ſigpibeth,
F155  coronat  that  wee  mdli  perſevere  and  coptinueto  theend,  otherwiſe
wee
cannot  looketoreapethe  harveſt  of  eternalibappinetle.  'It  isn0-
OPUS,
Of  all  Ve©3  thing  but  conſtancieand  continuing  in  well  going.  that  doeth  40
it  is  only  CON
crowneall  our  good  workee,  Bee  conſt  am((aith  our  Saviour  Chrill
ſtancie  1s
torhe  Church  of  Smyrna,  Aper,2,10,)  and  /  will  gine  thee  the  croune
Ci  own  ud,
