---
page: 518
pdf_page: 540
---
518
Chap.6.
A  Comment
arie  pen
bee  able  to  beart  ith.  Cor.  16.13,  Thirdly,ypon  the  prayer
of  Chrift,
who  prayed,  that  they  might  bee  kepr  foo  emily  ſobn  17.15.  that
they  might  bee  one  1n  the  Trinitie,  as  bee  m
the  Father,  and  the  Father
1#  benz  verſe  21.  that  they  may  bee  with  bins,  and
ſee  bu  gloriezver,
24.  Now  Chrill  was  alway  beard  in  that  which  bee  prayed  for,  5
lobn  1  1.42,
Laſtly,vpon  the  life  of  Chriſt,  hich  is  communicated  toall  his
living  members,  Gala.2.  verſe  20,  When  Chriit  which
is  their  bife  ſoall
appeare,then  ſhall  they  alſo  appeare  with  him  in  glory,Col.3.4,  net,  \f
they  cannotaltogether  ſaint  and  fall  away,  why.  doeth  the.  holy  19
Ghoſtmake  a  doubt
of  it,as  thoughthey  might  ?  Anſwer.  Itis  the
will  of  God  to  mooue  vsto  perſeverance,  and  to  {tirrevpourdul-
neſſe  by  ſuch  ſpeeches,that  we  ſhould  not  be  wanting  to  our  ſelges
inthe  vie  of  the  meanes,
bj
19  While  we  haue  ther  ſore  time
let  5  do  good  onto  all  men,
but  ſpecially  to  them  which  are  of  the  houſhold  of  faith.
ln  theſe  words  the  Apoſlle  doeth  iterate  the  concloſion
pro-
pounded  in  the  (ixt  verſe,  asalfo  in  the  ninth  verſe  immediatly
go-#9
ing  before;  that  wee  ſhould  doe
the  good  wee  can,while  we
time;zand  withall  hee  doth  illuſtrate  it  both  by  +6eobie-towhom
we  mult  doe  good,&  by  the  circumſtance  of  time,  how  long  wemull
continuetherin.  And  berein  he  an{wereth  a  ſecret  demand,which
might  be  made  vpo  the  former  rulez  for  wherasit  might  bethoght  %
that  theGentiles  whichprofelle  not  the  ſame  religion  with  vs,were
to  be  negleRed,or  at  leaſt,not  ſo  reſpeRed  (  aAve  reade,  4Ger  6.1.
theGrecians  were  negleedof  the  Ebrews  in  their  daily  miniſtery)
the  Apoltleanſwereth,  that  we  mull  not  reſtraine  our
and
morn  only  .  thoſe  _
areof  the  ſame  religion  with  vs  but  #?
enlargeit  vato  all:  mw
ood  11s  all  men,  but
10  themof
the  bonheld  of  faith,
Pg
m7
In  the  words  we  may  conliderthree  things,  Firſt,  the  dotic  it
ſclte;4er  3:  de  good,  Secondly;the  obieR  or  perſons  to  whom  wee
mult  do
good,which
is  laid  downecomparatively,  we  muſt  do  good  35
ro  all
ſpecrally  to  thoſe  that  are  |  bm  of  faith,  Thirdly,
the  cir-
Cy  S_  of  time,wheo  and
how  long  weare  to  doe  good  vhileft
hens  timezaf  theſe  in  order,and  firlt  of  thedutie.
his  generall  dutie  of  doing  good  ,  is  recommended  vntovs
by  fundry  arguments,  The  firlt  may  beetaken  from  the  maine  48
cad  and  (copeof  a  mans  lifein  this  world,  which  as  Pas/  (ignifi-
«th  in  this  place,  is  nothiog  elſe  but  ro  dee  g-0d:  and  this  doipg
of
goud
