---
page: 541
pdf_page: 563
sortable_pagination_id: "541"
---
whe  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
the  way  war  Farr  18.28;  in  fri  falles,  cntentall
ing,
courſe  apparell,  and  ſuch  lik
miracles,  &c.  Andrbas  they
make
Fan
ow
mickgdaaſſe,1.  Perer  2.6,  {  ot  a  the  pom
$  3.5-  co  key  haedhls  of
fooles  paradile,till
at
divell  with  faire  words
put  Eee1oto  a
be  bad:  driven  her
outof  the
terreſtrial  Paradiſe  I  p  Aging,
»  alſo  hazard  the  celeſtiall,  So  hi  inBer  Bi  couchene,  by
faice
and  Aatt
ſeek  eceiwe  thao
ple,and  cauſe.
==
rveemap  leq
boy  hypoedtes  and  falſe
teachers,  (and:
vpon  outward  things,ascxternall
rites  and  ceremonies,
Tad  ht  tov  tg  of
ets
9.  The  Pha-
the
thereis  roting  dar
domme  hone  rioaicall
trickes  beter  tomocke  apes  withall,then
to  edific  thePeople.  For
to  whereas
io  farmer  timet
;  werewoatto  lay  ,  Let  v5  \goe  beare  «
Meſe:  now  the  common  faying  inltalie  is  this;  Let  24  goe  (oe  @:
cv
Let  vs  therefore  tzie  the(pirits  before  wetrult  them,  and
in  matters
of  religion,  follow  Chrills  precept,  nor.  te
L  cnnodayeroerion7
.24.  \:Buttoiudge
ol  Prophets  -
}5  dakar
Arine,  d4«tth.  7.15.and  of  theirdoaArine
by  the  touchilone  of  tho
verk  Jer  $.20.  fouke
gona.  any
transforme  bimſelicintaan  A
from
any  otber  thing,
TS  Pong  Tyres  ne
44  follow  Chriſt
bis  practiſe  ,  who was  prudent.in  the  feare
of  the  Lord,
and  d1d  not  indge
by  the  fight  of  bus  eyes,  nor  reproene  by  the  bearing
of  bis:
eqrer,/ſas,  11:3.
The  :
