---
page: 520
pdf_page: 542
---
Chap.6:
A  Commentarie  pon
But  to  conſider  this  more  particularly,  Gooedneſſe
is  threeſald
phylaQicum  P
reſernmg}
niting,  Communicating  :  in  all  which  particulars  weareto
conletua-
=  reſeruing
goodneſſe  :  we  mult  do
ting:  Cong  1e-  pra
fnls  dutie,
on
gatiuum  :
c6-  good  not  onely  to  ourlelues,  but  t
ut  to
alſo,  in  labouring
to
MUunIcatiuum,  =
and  preſeruethem  from  the  con  tagion  of  ſinne,  from
fa
from  grace,  or  back  (liding  from  their
holy  profeſſion,  by  allgs
S—_  as  by  =  le,  and  by  gracious  ſpeeches  =>
with  ſalt,  ©c.  as  Barnabas  did,  who  commung  to  Antioch,and  ſeeing
the
grace  of  God  that  was  ginen  themywas  glad  and  confirmed  them
theremgex-
horting  them.  that  with  purpoſe  of  beart  the  y  would  cleane  unto  the  Lord,
Ad.11.12,  and  for  this  cavſe(
as  I  take  it)it  is  added,  v.23.  that  bee
was  4  good  man,and
full  ofthe  boly  Gheft,and
faith.
The  Vote  readeef]s  likewiſeto  be  practiſed,in  ſetting  men  at
Vaity,  in  reconciling  thoſe  that  are  at  variance,  ifmaking
and  amity,  where  there  is  nothing  but  enmity  and  diſſentign:  forgs
for  this  cauſe  Chrilt  calleth  peace-rwakers  the  children  of  God.  Marg.
10,  becauſe
herein  they  lively  reſemble  the  goodneſle  of  Godtheir
heauenly  Father,  as  any  ſonne  Yoth  reſemble  any  quality  or  pro.
pertie
in  his  naturall  father:  for
he  maketh  men  to  be  of  one  mind
in  an  houſe,P  (al.67.
10
The  communiceging  goodarfſ  being  eſpecially  vnderſtoodin  this
place)hath  foure  degrees.  Firſl,  for  remporall  things  we  mult  con
municateto  the  neceſlities  of  the  Saints,f
ow.  12,1  ;3.And  for  ſpiri
tual  Bleſſmgs,  we  muſt  remember  the  ſaying  of  Peter,  Let  every  man
as  be  bath  receined  a
gift  ſo  miſter  the  ſame  to  other;,as  goed  diſpeſer!  15
of  the  manifold  fold  grace  of
God,1.Pet.q.  10.
Secondly,we  muſt  vemos  in  the  works  of  mercy,not  con-
tenting  ourſclues  with  this,  that  wee  arc  beneficiall  to  ſomeio  re-
lecoing  them  jn  their  wants  and  neceſſities  :  but  wee  moſt  be  rich
ingood  workes,  1.7.  6.18,  Charge  them  that  are  rich  intbu  world,  3*
Tharrhey
be  not  high  minded,that  they  doe  good  ,and  be  rich  in  good  worke?,
ready  to  diſtribute  and  communicate,  Wee  mult  bee  like  7.1{tha  (  of
Dorcas  )  who  cloathed  the  poore  with  the  garmevts  which  ſhee
made  at  her  owne  proper  colt  and  charges,  Ate:  9.9.  and  tor
this  cauſe  the  holy  Ghoſt  giveth  this  teſtimonie  of  her,that  ee  35
wasrich  or  full  of  geod  workes  and  almer  which  (hee  did,  verſe  35.  liket0
the  vertuous  woman,  Prowerbes  31.20,  whoopeneth  the  palme  of
her  hands  to  the  poore,and  (tretched  out  her  hands  tothe  needy:
like  /
whom  it  is  ſaid  ,  that  the  loincs  ot  the  poore  bleiled
him,/eb
31.20,
49
Thirdly,  wee  mult  bee  much  in
goodn2ſſe  (
as  the  Scripture  ſpea-
keth  of  God)  that  is,  abundant  wary  IG
in  communicatiog
vnto
