---
page: 521
pdf_page: 543
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap.6.
521
ynto  «
others  abfi  Jantly  thoſc  bleſſings  »hich  the  L  ord  hath  Rared
vs
withall:  not  onely  in  loving  our  brethrenfor  which  the  The(a-
loniafts  are  commended,  that  theirloue  one  towards  another  gid
abound  ;  but  in  aliberall  lupplying  of  their  wants,  as  Paw/exhorts
5  the  Corinthnans,that  as  they
did  abound  in  faith  andlove,  (o  they  would
abound
rub  liberality.2,  Cor.  $,7,  as  good  Obadiah  did,  in  ſpending
his  liuing,and  ventoriog  bis  life,in  hiding  an  hundred  of  the  Lords
—_  from  the  turious  rage  of  wicked  Jeſabel.  1,  K  ing.
18  13.
Laltly,wemullt  be  exceedmy  or  ſuperabundant  in  goodoes  ;
in  ex-
ceeding  meaſure(ifit  may  be)in  doing  good:  like  the  poore  wid-
dow  who  had  rather  want  her  felfe,then
be  altogether  wanting  in
contribution  to  the  treaſurie  ofthe  Lords  Temple:  and  therefore
though
it  was  but  two  mites  which  ſhee  caſt  into  the  (oben,  yet
F;
preferred  it  before  all  the  rich  mens  offerings  beiog  put  to-_
xether,in  that  they  gaue  of  their  ſwperfluitie,  but  ſhee  of  her  penwrie,
cat  in  allthat  ſhee  had.cucn  allher  living,  Zvb.2  1.4.  Itis  well  ſaid
by  S.  Ambr8ſe  :
We  mrſt  reliene  the  wants  7
others  according
as  wee  are  Offic.l.2.c.28
leand  ſometime  euen  aboue  our  abilitie,as  Pal  witnelleth  ofthe  Co-  Nece  ſhrares
19  rimbians  to  their  great  commendation,
hat  to  their  power,  and  beyond  \  Nrn  ana
therr  power  they  were  willing,  2.Cor,  $.2,
inv  af.
Further,in  doing  good,
we  mull  obſerve  theſcrules,  I,  Wemuſt  mus,  plus
doe  pood  of  that  onely  which  is  our  owne  :  for  we  may  not  cut  a  interdum
large  and  liberall  hive  of  another  mans  loate(as  the  common  ſay-  =  poſſi
ts  ing  is)
#EtHay  not  (teale  from  one,to  giueto  another  :  ordeale  va
ioltly  with  ſome;that  we  may  be  mercifull  to  others:  orrobbe  Pe-
i,to  cloath  Paw.  The  Lord  abboweth  even  burnt  offeringyif  it  be
ofthat  which  is  gotten  by  rapineand(  o)[poile.E/4.5  1.8.and  hence  ,  þglocauns
itis  that  David  would  not  offer
burnt  offering  without  colt,of  that  de  rapina.
340  which  was  not  his  owne.  1.Chron.2  1,24,
11.  We  muſt  doe  good  with  chearefulnes  and  alacritie,  for  God
"ax"  chearefull  giner,2.Cor.9,  Ambroſe  faith  fly  =
hone  --  -  4
purpole,  Wl.  dome  onwoht  to  roceede  from  well.  willing  :  or  ſuc  ast  me  Benehcentla
Chon  :  neal  athon,
erefore  if  we  give,we  mu  t  doe  it  free-  -  —_—
15  ly,otherwiſe  it  is  no
gift  :  for  what  more  tree  then  gift  2  therefore  4c4c.,.0.
weernay  pot  play  the  huck(ters  in  doing  good,for  that  d
15  tuus  NO-
blemiſh  the  excellencie  of  the  gitt  :  for  as  Lettantin:  faith,  Dands  -
pawns,  "rang
benrficia  non  ſanerand
a,
ns
Inſtir.dium.
I,  Weemultſo  doe  good,  as  that  we  doe  not  diſable  0
ur  lib,2.cap.1  2
46  ſelues  tor  ever  doing  good  z
but  may  continue  in  welldoing,and  a5
the  P[almſt  {peaketh,bring  forth  more  frivite  in  ory  age.  Salomon  COM-  Pal  g2.14-
mands  that  the  fireames  of  our  wells  ſhould  flow  to  others,  yet1o,
