---
page: 544
pdf_page: 566
sortable_pagination_id: "544"
---
A  Commentarie  pm
Chap.6.
544
gain(ttheir  conſcience?  nay  rather  we  ought  incharitietothioke
that  they  are  perſwaded  in  conſcience  they  5  4
do  them,when  b
oath  and  proteſlation  they  confeſſe  ſo  much.  But  beit,they  did  lt
in  hypocrifie,  ſhall  the  execution  of  godly  lawes  therefore  calc,
becauſe  hypocrites  will  not  obey,  but  io  diſſimulation  ?
Obit,
111,  The  Magillrate,by  compelling  Recuſants  tothe
outward  prcfe(ſion  of  religion,  maketh  them  to  play  the  hypo.
crites,  fo  countertcit,and  difſcmble.  Anſwer.  T  be  m_—_—  in  ,
ex  ecuting  the  lawes,hath  no  ſuch  iptent,
bor  only  that  they  might  *
heafe  the  word,beleeve  it,pnd  be  ſaved.  Againe,Prate(lavt  Recy-  10
*  ſants  in-  other  countreys,  are not  allowed  by  Pepills,  to  alleadge
their  conſcience  for  their  refuſall  ,  but  are  compelled  either  to
copforme  therſelues  ,  orto  vndergoe  cruelltorments:  Do  more
way  ſuch  pretence  of  copſcienceexcule  the  Papiſts,  or  other  be-
retkes,
butthat  they  ſhould  receive
the  ſame  meaſure  which  they  15
mete  to  others.  1611
101  £1990:
150
C5
11.'\2»eft<  How  cav  itbe  troly  ſaid,that
the  ſalſe  apoſtles  com»
pelled  men  to  teecivecircumcborſecing  Trim  was  net  compelledts
becirenmiciſed7TGol.2.3;  uſer,  That
place  maketh  pothing  agaiolt
meddling  istbat  Pes/  for  his  part  wasready  to  29
'\:haveciscumgiſed  Ft»  has  he  did.
rmerhic,  AF,  16-3.)  rather  &
\:offen&the  weakebretbren,\:c.
But  when  it  gametothis  poiot,  that
they  would  vige  ci
,  6s  a  thing  neceſlagy  to  ſalvation,
Pan!  refuledto
doe  ityfor  ali  the  falſe  brethren  that  crept  11,  v.4..  that  is,
notwithſtanding
they  labovred,
by  all  meanes  to  briog  it  io  vie  ?5
againe.  Neither  did  the  Apoſiles  vrge  it,or  require  it,  as  thingne-
ceilary  tofaluation!
W120  2  £2.  10%
111.  '1t  may  be  demanded,whether
that  circumgilion
being
lo
vehemently
veged  by  the  pqrnes  arr
not  havebene
vied?
Aesſwer,  It  might  not.  For  albeititbeinit  ſelie  a
tbipg  jodifferent,  30
and  HENS  not,  mg
bee  circcumciſed,or  not,
(  as
P  aul
lat)  Corcwncifion
is  nothing  ,
and  nercunuceſion  ic  nothing  :  yt
beeing
vrgedas  a  matterof  ablolpte  neceſhtic;  8s  without  which
men  could  not  be  ſaved,
Aes  15.1.  it  ought  nottobeyled.  T
be
like  may,
bee  faid  of  all  indifferent  thingy,  if  they
be  made  elſen-  53
tiall  parts  of,  Gods  worſhip,  ar  pece(larie
to
ſalvation  y  as.the  vi
of  meates  and  dripkes,  obſeruing  of  times
and  ſcafons,
his  or  that  habit,  or  attire  3.  forbidding  of  mattiage
orders  of-men.  For  whep  things  indiffercat  are  made
the  nature
of  them  is  changed.  Vpon.this  ground  Exel
in  piecesthe  brazen  Serpent,when  the  I{raclitcs  began  to  w
it,2.Kings  18.4.
