---
page: 525
pdf_page: 547
---
the  Epiſtle  ro
the  Galatians.
J25
yotten  ofthe  fametimmortall  ſeede;novriſhed
with  the
,  arifTooking  forchefame  dleiſed  inheritance
be  beneficiall
ons  ro  another;  then  to  thoſe  that  are
cforrai-
ners  and  ſtrangers,  no  way  linked  voto  them  by  the  bond  of  faith.
;\  "Now  thereaſous
areal,  ve
ugh
phe  ſpecially  ro  doe
to  them
of  the  houſhold  of
berheſe,  =A
God  hoyeth
af  his  creatures,  ſpeci
fprelly  mankin
,  moſt  eſpecially  rbe  faithful,
ypor  whom  he  doth  beffow  the  riches  of  his  te  e,  yea  himſelfe  al-
ſo\:forthough  God  be  gedg  once  all,  Plal.  145.9.  yetin  a  ſpeciallſort
16  Ne  good  ro  /ſonelg0  them  that  are  of  apure  rare,  Plal.  73.1.  Hei  a  Sa-
Mont
of  all  wenpreillyof
rheſe  that  belrewe.  1,  Tim.  4.10,  Secondly,
m_  \hatloeger's  done  ro'one  of  Gods  Saints,is  done  vato
125.44  Thitdlytreſpedt  ofthe  excetleticieof  their
in  that
Weſdav!  Goa,  briver  of  bis  kinydome  ember
(Tag
Bs  pr  i
aa
PR?  a  aleotain
recalled  a  bouſhald  &  a  family,
vs.that
us  we  have  one  beFandone  board,one  bread
cy
anJ  one  cop  whereof  all  drinke:  fo  we  ſhould  baue
Ge
fees  ofvbe  A
,  weſhould  _  rag
to-
to  p-
"1
ether,  why  ſhould
ih  we  hg
Foes  rb  ho  ar  ===,  If  thofe  of
of  darkenefſe  cot  ng
together,
arit  is
is
2.
bing
7  of  the  earth  band  themſelves
and  the  Princes  ave  aſſtm-
Med  together,  ag
Ein  the
Lord,anttayainff  bi  Chrift,  A&.q.17.  Dowbr-
3  4
on  thine  bely  Sonne  leſns,  whons  thou  baft  amnointed,  beth  Herod
Penenu  Pilate  ,  with  the  Gentiles  and  people  of  Ifrac!  garbered  thens-
ber,  Plal.8  $$56:78.
bave  coufulted
together  in  heart,
clade  4
ainſt  ther;  The  tabtrngcter  of  Edow  ,
andthe
wy
the
,  Geball,  and  Anon,  and  Atoa-
tants  of  Tyrus  ©  Aſonr  al(d  is  toyned
4  lech,  the  Philiſims,  wich  the
with  thims:  they  bawe  brene
an  arw#e  tothe  childrenof
Lot,  How  rauch
rude  Ales,  hrtbe  chifdren
of
light  to  accompanieand  con-
be  world  are  miſerintheirge-
ae  Nay
the  biirebeiſtomay  ca.
ws
|  Enocvsiotbpon
int:  for
heard  together  ,
flocke
her,  fiſhes
ſhole  ed  or  che  rooaraLfb  of  a
Es
er  willfile  t
ether.
A  Jaane  er  eeRrTh,  0b
,  makin  hae  hind
family  of  fairh,  Wo
areof  the  ſame
Chr,  EL
coate,  and  a  diuiion  in  the  body  of  C
4b  one  from  another,in  affedian  of  heart,and  py
©  Againe,thismay  miniſter  comfort  ro  alle
Fathfall
derthe  croſle,
to  conlider  that  they  are  of  Gods  family  z  and  _—
