---
page: 548
pdf_page: 570
sortable_pagination_id: "548"
---
Chap:6,
A  Conmentarie
pon
548
Goſpeland  perſecution,doe
cither  goehandin  hand;ondo  follow
oneavother  infeparably  yforuis  mony  x  pebicgaly  in  Chriſt  leſmg,
wuſt  [offer  perſeconzen.  '2.Tim:
3.  t  Moſes  is  {2id  to  have  choſenre-
ther  to  ſuffer  affiuftion  with  the  people
of  God  ,  thento  enioy  the  pleaſwrerof
fonne
for  a  ſeaſon.  Heb..11.25.  Where  wee  lee  thatafflition  is  the  ©  $
lot  and  portion  ofthe  godly.  The  reaſon  bereof  is  two-fold;  The
malice  of  the  Divell  whois alway  nibbling  at  the  beele  ,  Gen.3.15,
And  the  batredof  the  mah
Church  (the  dives  feede)  ever
maligning
the  Church  and
people  of  God.  The  divell  maketh
were  wihccrmtanonts
womans  feede,  which  keepe  the  10
commandements
of  God,  and  baue  theteftimonie
of  lefus  ,
Apec.
12,47.T  hemalignant  Ch
the  Church-\:of
God  as
we  may'fee
in  their  types,  namely,
in  Cai  hating  and
Abel;  |ſmacl,  Iſaac;  Eſan,  Iacob.  Which  they  did  onely  becanſerbey
(aw  their  owne  workes  to  be  ennll,and  theirrto  be  good,  1.  Johm.3.12,  And  15
ifit  be  demanded  ,  why  thoſe  that  preach  the  word  plainely  and
powerfully  to  the
conſcierices  of  men,  in-evidence
of  theipinit;are
10  extteamely
hated  and  maligned  ?  Any.  It  is  for  no  other  thing,
but  een  for  rhe  workes  {ake;for  which  they  ovghe
to  be  reverenced,
1,7heſſ.$5.13.  and  becauſe  they  propbecie  nor  good  emo  chem,but  ral,  10
:1.Xmg.22.8.that  is-preach  not
adettheir  elbowes
of  F«rnaxs,  and  Preciſiansy;
but  this,  which  our  Saviour  Chiiltgi-
ucth,  eb,  15.  19,  Brcanuſethey  ard  wit  of  the  manid,t  ber  efares  be
world
batcth  them  ?  Now  all  this  commethto
palle,  by  reaſon  of  thaten-
mitie  which  God  hath  put  beewixt  the  waman,and  theſerpentyhis  30
ſeede,andber  ſecede.  Gev,  3.15,
$0.14
I  histeacheth  vs,6irft,that
we  ſhould  ſulpe  our  (clues;that
our
hearts  are  not  ſound,nor  ourpraftiſe  lincere,  —_—_—
vell  of  vs  :  for  true  profe(on  is  alwaies  accompanied
with
per-
ſecution.  #2  bee
ro  'you.y  when  all  wen  fprake  well
of  you.  Lak  6.  5;
verſe  26,
Secondly  ,  that  we  mult  not  bee  diſcouraged  in  ourprofeſſion,
though
there  be  never  ſo  many  thatmake
itiov,or
ſo  mighty
thatraiſe  perſecution  againſt  vs,  T
tellvs  as  they
did
Part,  Att.28,22.  Concermng  this  ſeft,  we  byow that  every  wheret  n  40
ſpoken  aganſt  :  ortake  vsvp  with
Nicodemus,  lobn  py,  52,  Arttlon
aloof  Galile  ?  ſearch  and  laoke,  for  0x1  of  Galile  ariſeth  wo  pans  ]  G
thele.
