---
page: 33
pdf_page: 55
---
the  Epiitle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.t.
43
time  of  deliverance.  He  thatbeleener
make:  nobafte,1[aiv23.16,  Haba-
e*h  mult  wait
becauſe
the  vi/iow
is  for  a  time  appointed;Hab
2.1,  Danids
eyesand  ftreagth
failed  is  waiting
on  God,Pſal,  69.3,  Daniel  waites
on  God  ſeuentie  yeares,  and  than
for  deliverance  out  of
5  captivitie,  the  time  beeing  expired.  This  ſerues  to  diſcover  the
wickednelle  of  \pom.thar
ingia  avy  kinde  of  miſerie,  cannot
ſtay  the  leaſureof  God  till  hee  deliver  then  by  good  meanes,  but
they  will  haue  preſent  remedie,  though
it  be  from  tbedigell  :  and
if  helpe  cannot  bee had  when  they  delice,  they  preſeatly  make  a-
10  way  thernſelues.
T  he  ſecond  pointis.the
forme  of  the  calliog,  or  conuerſicn  of
Paal
in  theſe  words[torewedle  bis  Seuneinw:  that  is,toteach  me  the
dodtrine
of  the  redemption
of
eby  hisSon  leſus  Chrilt,
Here  [|  conſider,to  whom  revelationismade,and  how  ?
25  -  Forthebrlt,revelation
ofthe  Sonneis  madeto  cruell  and  perſe-
cating  Pavia  deſperate  (inner.  Hence  euery  man  can  gather;that
God  hath  mercie
for
and  notorious  offences,as  for  Pa»t,and
fuch  like:  andthe
lonisg
For  God  «  much  in  ſþeariugy
1/ai.  55.7.  And  yet  bereit
muſt  beremembred,  thatall  delperate
20  offenders,  ſhallnot  finde  mercie,  yalelle  they
bee  great  in
sbeur  re-
pentaxcexas
God  is  greatin  mercie,  Far  Gods  mercy  hath  adouble
ctfeR  invs,  nc  is,  remillion
of  line,  by  the  imputation  of  the
merit
of  Chriſt:  theother,the  mortifcarioa  of  originall  lin,by  bis
ethcacy,  And  theſetwo  be  inſeparable,as  we  ſeein  Pavhon  w
alſo  was  notable.  As
25  God  ſhewed  great  mercy,  whole  repentance
the  woman,  Luh,7.had
many  ſinnes  forginen  beryofpe  lowed  much.  v,  47.
By  this  wee  ſee  the  great
and  cammon  abale  of  the  mercy  of  God.
Men  euery where  preſume  vponthe  greatnelle  of  Gods  mercy,and
they  make  Chriſt  a  pack-borſe,lading  bim  with  their  burdens,and
30  there  islittle  orno  amendment  of  lite,
The  maner  that  God  viedin  reuealing  the  Sonne  to  Pax/,[tands
in  two
things
:  Preperation,and  /nftruttion.
bes  is  a  DT
eknnd  God,whereby  he  hambled  P  aw/,fubdw-
ed  the  pride  and  (tybburaneileot  his  heart,  and  made  himtracta-
35  ble,  and  teachable.  This  humiliation  is  outward,  orinward,  The
outward  was  partly  by  lightening  from  heauen,that  calt  him  tothe
earth,and  made  him  blind:  and  pactly  by  a  voice  reprooving  him;
Saul,Saxlwhby  perſecuteſttbou.  me?  T
heinward  humiliaticn  wasin  a
fight,and  horrour
for  his  fines.  The  linnesthat  Gad  revealed  to
40  Iim,are  theſe  :  the  firſt  was,an  height  of  wickedael(lc,thatin  perſe-
cuting
the  Church,he  made  warre  euenagaialt  God  himlelte.  Se-
condly,  Gos  made  manite(t  ynto  him  the  meaning  of  the  tenth
D  3
COMMaAns
