---
page: 550
pdf_page: 572
sortable_pagination_id: "550"
---
Chap  6.
A  Commentarie  pon
ought,Row.  13,1.n0r
obedientto  gouvernors,as  it  igrequired,  1,  Po,
2.13,  14\:Nay  gbeir  praiſe  is  notorious  io  theſe  foure  particulars.
Firlt,io  freeinFchildreo  from  obedience  totheir  parents.  Second-
ly,in  exempting  their  (hauelings  from  ſubieRion  to  the  ciuill  Ma.
giſtrate.
birdly,in  freeing  ſubieRs  from  their  oath  ofalleageance  5
to  their  Soueraignes.  And  laltly,by  aduancing  that  man  ot  (inne
aboveallthat  iscalled  God,
or  worſhipped,and  giving  him  power
to  depole  Princes,to  ove  crownes
and
ki
»  andta
impoſe  lawes  which  ſha  Lats  21; bor
ay  the  conſcience;  yea  to
tread  Kings  and  Emperors  vader
his  feet,
and  cavſe  themlike  vaſ-  1g
fals  ro  bold  his  ſlirrop.  Againegthey
hers  to
ly  in  Lene,when
as  they  inthe meane  time  fealt;their  falt  beingto
eat  ha  drinke  wp;  in
con
ifyi  v1  uy
an  -
cap0ns,and  peacocks,and
that
ridayzw
fo  eat
white-meates  ypon  tharday  ſhould.  bee  in  others
mortal]  linne.  ;  5
Forther,they  beare  thepoorepeoplein  haodthat  Lodolgencesare
meanestoremit  linnes;  and  that
thoſe  that
by  the  Pope,are  in  adamnableeltate;  whereas  maoy  of  them,  ac»
count  Popes  Bulles
to  be  but  b»Ue,  meere  trifles  ,  and  ſuch
as  buy
them,(tarke  fooleqzwitnelle  theſpeech  of  the  Duke  of  Valence,be:  z  «
ard  to  Rope  Alexander  the  6xth,  who  hegger  certaine  thoo-
fand  crawnes  at  a  throw  at  the  dice;
T  uſh(faid
he)thele  are  but the
linneso*the  Germans.  And  thatof  Charles  the  fife  (though  aq
uvqurer
and  maintaiper  of  the  Romane  religiop  )  who  being  me-
naced  by  Pope  Paulus  the  third,  with  excommunication,
it  bge  z g
would  not  yeeld  vp  Playſance  into  his  bands;  let  bien  vpderband
by  bis  Emba([ador,that  be  would  thugder  at  S,  Augeto.with  big  car
nops  and  etn  be  would  needs  be  thundripg
out  his  excom-
munications-Laltly,they  vie  confeſſion
of  Purgatory,almolt  as  an
article  of  faith,wheras  ſome  of  them
are  {a  farre  from  belgeviogit,  ze
az  thatthey  thinke  there  is  neither  beaveo,
nor  hell;  witaclle  the
O  Bembe,  ren”  Pape  Carte  wy  ons  1x  947  :  4  Rana
quintum  no-  riches  Þine  wet  gotten  i
fe
Teſne
f  F
b  wWCe  are
oy  _—_—  =  contrarily  adevoniſhed  to  mT  aan  Fx
\:the  Mioiſters
Chrito»
Of
the  word  elpecialiy,ongh  uerba  vertere  in  opera,  (as  [erome  (pear  35
Feth)thatis,to  —  —_  _  ea,  =
xſws  wy
real  Sermons  to
the
2:  for  otheewjſerbey  pull
downe.
with
one  hand,
ax  fall  as  they  build  with  another
1Let  cooler  bo
Peters  bad  >
is  ſaid
to  bave.compellied
the  Guntiles  tp  live
as.the  lewes,Gal.2,14.  ForaRtions  abide, andare  of  forge,aben  42  -
words  paſſe  asthe  wind,  ©
M  axequer,vpan  this  dependth  angtber  propesticof  ſegucers
whicd..
