---
page: 551
pdf_page: 573
sortable_pagination_id: "551"
---
the  Epiſtle  te  the  Galatians.
Chap.6.
J3t
which  is,  to  (et  a  fairegloſſeypon  thematter,  and  to  makethe
world  belecue,  they  doe  theſeand  theſe  things,  for  ſuch  and  facts
ends  (astheſefalle  teachers  did,
ivg  religion  &  conſcience,
but  intending  freedome  from  the  crotſe,  and  their  owne  vaine
5  glory)  whereas  they  meanenothing
le(ſe:  like  Herod,  who  made
ſhew
of  worſhipping
Chriſt,  when
his  purpole  was  to  hayedeltroi-
ed  bim,Meath.z.  This  propertie  andpraGiile  is,avd  hath  bene  vſa-
all,ſpecially  io  the  Church  of  Rome.  For  generally,  they  would
have  the  world  beleeue,that  che  Popes  triplecrowne  and  Hierar-
19  chic  of  that  See,is  for  che  maintenance
and  defence  ofthe  Golpels.
whereas  all  the  world  kyoweszit  is  onely  to  keepe  their  kitchins-
hote,ts  vphold
their  Perſian  pompe,and  ambitious  tyrannie:  Par-
ticularly,there
be  two
politike  praQtiſes  of  theirs,  which  proue  the.
poiotin  hand:  Firſt,iris  well  knowne,that  Popes  hauencuer  ceaſed.
15  rom  timeto  timexo  (ſolicitethe  Princes  of.,Emrope  ,  tromaintaine:
the  holy  warrez(as  they  callit)  pretending  therecouerie  of  the  ho-
ly  tand  out  of  the  handgof  the  Turkes
and  Saracing:  (when  as:
(at  leaſt  inthe
beginning)  they  intended  nothiog  leile  ,  but  that
by  this  meanes  they  might  ſet  the  Ea(t  and  Welt  cogether
by  the,
16  cares,  whileltthey  playedtbeir  parts  ar  homein  Italy,  The  ſecond.
is,their  $hrift,or  aurjcular  Coptediva,which  they  practiſe  tor  this
ende(as  they  ſay)  that  chey  may  pacifie  diltrefſed  conviemanfe  |
abſolving  them
of  their  ſinnes:  -when  2s  the  truth  is,  they.  belt.
brought  it  into  the  Church,and  doe  ſtill  continue  it  ia  a  politicke.
15  reſpec,  as  being  the  onely  way  in  the  world,to  know  allthe  ſecrer
praiſes,  that  ace  eitber  in  Church,
porpolenpotepalici  nnd
or.
Commonwealth,
G1
Wears  therefore  hereadmonithedto  rake  heed
ofdiſlembling,
Chriſlianitie  a  cloake
of  impietie,  or  to  pretend  one.
io
thi  =  iotend  another,  like
che  heart  pou
ing
vpward,  and  ©
oy
downeward,  for  that  will  be  a  farre  owler  lolorciſme  then.
__
ich  the  beatheo  commicted  with  -  Liege  pointing!  to.
[4
heauen,  when  bee  ſpakeof  che  carth.  But
v8  alway  labour  tor
linceritie,to  be  at  leaſt  that  which  we  pretend
eo  be,  orrather  like.
15  Salomons  T  ewple,wbole  windowes  were  larger  withio  then  with-
out,and  not  likethe  glow-wgrme,  making  3  faire  glittering
(bew  -
of  that  which  w  e  haugnafy;  *
dy
26.024
a0157.
19
14  But  God  forbid  thas  1bould  glory,  faur  in  the  craſſe  of
4  our  Lord  Ieſus  Chriit,whereby  the  world  it  crucified  ta  me,  and  -
1  wmto  the  world.
In
