---
page: 531
pdf_page: 553
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.s.
J$!
maintenance  of  nauigation,and  the  plentie  ofall  things.
Eccleſiaſtical,
when  ſet  times  areobſerued  in  the  Church  for  order
ſake,  without  ſuperſtition,  or  opinion  of  worſhip  :  as  among  the
Tewesthe  feaſt  of  Purim,Epb.9.26.the  fealt  of  the  Dedication,
lob.
$  10.22,  Among(t  Chriſtians,  feltiaall  daies  :  as  the  fealt  of  the  Nati-
vitic,of  circumcilion,of  the  reſurrection,  and  alceniion  of  Chrilt  :
theſe  and  ſuch  like  ſolemnities,
appointed  for  our  thankſgiving  and
bumiliation,are  not  valawtull,
if  they  beeenioyned  by  lawfall  au-
thoritic,and  kept  in  good  manner.
ls
Duxincis,when  vponthe  conſideration  of  the  ſhortneiſe  and  vn-
certlintie  of
our  liues,wee
our  ſeluesagain(t  God  ſhall  call
v3,a0d  /o  number
our  daies
that  we  apply
onr  bearti  to  wiſedome,  P[al.g0,
Or,obleruing  the  day  of  Gods  mercifullviſitatioo,we  take  the  op-
tie  and  vie  the  meanes  that  is  offered,  for  our  converſion
'5  and{aluation.  Or,obſcruing  the  time  of  Gods  viſitation  in  iudge-
ment  and  indignation,  we  bide  our  ſclues  vader  the  couert  of  his
wings.  Pron.22.3.
IV.  Heace  welearne;that  thereis  no  poſlibility  of  doing
good,
20  or  beeing  beneficiall  vato  others  after  thislife,for  Paw
biddeth  yg  #275  (ak  vr
doe  good  while
we  bave  tine:  chereby  inſinostiog.thataiter  death  all  ci  7
poſſi  of  doing  good  iscleanecut  off.  The
time  allotted  to  **
i:
,beciag  included  within  the  limits  ofthis  life,  The  dead  ©  mu
5  that  dye  in  the  Lord  reft  from.  their  labours,  Rexel  -14.13.Therefore
nogood  workes
are  performed  afterthis  life.  Pa«/  beeing
agedand
ieto  dye,  the  tearme  of  bis  life  beeing  almolt  expired,
ſaith,
Ibaxe  finiſhed  my  conrſe,2.7im.4.7.which  could  not  be  truely  ſaid,if
hee  wereto  performe  any  good  workes  after  his  death,  z.Corme6.
30  5.10.  W\:enmſt  gine  account
for  all  things  wee  hane  done  m  the  body,that
is,  in  this  life.
Where  it  is  to  bee  obſerued,  that  the  Apollle  ſpea-
king  of  all  the  workes  whereof  wee  are  to  giue  account,doth  con-
finethem  within  the  compalle  of  this  life;  therefore  no  workes
can  bee  done  after  thislife  be  ended.  Let
vs  heare  the  teſtimonie  of
the  auncient.Cyprien  to  Demetrivs,  2  nands  iſtine  exceſſnn  eftyunllus
3s
locms  pernmitentia  ef,  wellw:  ſattrfations  effec  ttns,  lerome,  Dum  in  pre-
(ents  ſeculo  ſumus,  fine  oration  bus,  ſine  confilus  iowxem  poſſe  n#1  coad-
vari  ems  antem  ante  Chrifts  trib»  wal  venerimus,  non  lob,  non  Da-
miel,nec  Noe  rogare  poſſe  pro  qu0quam  ſed  ynumquemg;poriare  ouns  ſunm.
And  againe,”  /»  bc  vita,  licet  nobus  quod  volumns  ſeninare  :  Quuns
40  !ranfiern,
tempus  auferetur,  &c,  Hence  |  gather  two
things.  Fieſtthat  the  doAtrine
of  Purgatory  is  a  meere  fable,becaule
there  js  no  time  aſterthislife  be  ended,leit  codoe  good,  citherto
our  {clues  or  others,  and  theretore  not  to  worke  righteoulnetle,
Mm  3
ts
