---
page: 533
pdf_page: 555
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
|  Chap.6.
333
they  trult  not  invacertaine  riches,  but  in  theliving  God,  Laſtly,
they  haue  the  benefit  of  poore  mens  praiers,  (to  whom  they  are
benehcial,)which  otherwiſe  they  ſhould  want.
V  11,  Thecircum(tance  of  time  hath  heere  the  forceof  an  ar.
5  gument,for  it  infarceth  the  exhortation  much,that  we  ſhov!d  doe
all  the  good  wee  cav,  and  take  the  benefit  of  the  opportunitie,  be-
cauſe  time  will  notalway  laſt  :  the  holy  Ghoſt  in  ſundry  places  of
Scripture,  from  the  con(ideration  of  the  ſhortneſle  of  our  time;en-
forcetb  the  duties  of  faith,repentance,vew  obedience,  as  r.Cor.7.
10  v.29,30,3  1.  «Andthis  I  ſay  brethren,  becauſe  the  time  is
ſport,  berexfrer
that  both  they  that  hane  wives  bee  a5  though  they  had  none  :  and  they  that
weepe;as  theugh  they  wept  net  :  and  they  that  revoyce,as  thongh  they  reioy-
ced  not,  Hebr,;.v.7,8.  To  day  if  yeewill  heare  bis  voice  hardennot  your
bearts:  andv.1  3,  Exhort  one  another  d11ly,while  it  is  called  to  day,  The
15  godly  in  all  ages  have  praftiſed  this  dutic.  Peter  knowing  that
the  time  was  at  hand  ,  that  bee  was  tolay  downe  his  tabernacle,
llirres  vp  himſclfe  to  greater  diligence  in  bis  calling,  and  faith,  7
will  not  be  vegligent  topmt  you  in  remembrance  of  theſe  things,  ſo  long  4s  1
ant,  in  this
tabernacle,  ſeerng  I  know  the  time  is  at  hand  that  I  mutt  lay
to  it  downe,  as  our  Lord  leſus  C
hath  hewed  mee,  2.Pet.  1.121741  4.
The  Church
prayeth  thus  to  God,  Teach  vs  to  number  our  dayer,that
is,  ſo  toconlider  the  ſhortnetſe,  vncertaintie,  and  vanitie  of  our
life,  chit  wee  way  apply  our  hearts  towiſdome,Pſa/.90,12.  But  wicked
mens  practiſe  is  cleane  contrary,  for  they  take  occalion  vpon  the
25  ſhortneile  of  their  time,  to  live  as  they  li(t,to  take  their  plealures,
and  to  follow  the  luſts  of  their  bearts  :  therefore  they  ſay,Let  vs  eat
and  drmke,  for  to  marrow  we  ſhall  die.  Eſay  22.13,  Onur  bfe  ©  ſport  and
tedious,and  onr  trme  is  45  4  (htddow  that  paſſeth  away  —  Come  therſore
und  let  5  emoy
the  pleaſures  that  arepreſent.  Wiſd.  2.verl,  t,  5,6,  And
30  hence  it  is;that  ſome  ſpend  their  timein  eating  and  drinking,  and
going  gorgeoully,  and  faring  delicioully  every  day  ;  otherin  ga-
ming,  carding,  dicing,  rioting,  revelling,
and  (as  the  tearmeis)  ia
{waggering  ,  wherein  they  tollow  their  tather  the  diuell,  who  is
therefore  more  full  of  wrath,  knowing  that  hee  b\:th  but  a  ſhort  time,
35  Apocal,  12.12,  To  theſewee  may  adde  all  ſuch  idle  perſons,  as
follow  no  vocation,  or  trade  of  lite,  but  day  after  day,  andyeare
after  yeare,  are  (till  deviſing  new  paltimes(  as  they  call  them)to
trifle  oeapon
Theſe  men  haſten  the  iudgements  of  God,
and  pullitypon  them  before  God.  inflict  it.  It  is  a  great  iudge-
49  ment  0
for  amanto  bee  in  that  caſe,  that  in  the  mormag  hee
ſhall  ſry,  would  God  it  were  enening,  and
tn.  the  eurnirg  would  God  it  were
28,5710  this  cafe  is  every  idle  loiterer,who  —_—
morning  \,Dent,
idlcnc  {te
Mm  4
