---
page: 534
pdf_page: 556
---
534
Chap6.
A  Commentarie  pon
idlene(ſe  is  weary
of  himſelfe,and  grieved  the  time
paſſeth  aw:
ſo  lowly  :  and  to  theſe  guinihil  agunt,  wee  may  lens  them  5
le  agunt,  andthole  allo  qi  and  agunt,all  which
are  condemned
io  this  text;  and  agaioſt  them  7izzs  the  heathgn
Emperovr  ſhall
riſe  in  iudgement,  and  ſhall  condemne  them
becauſe  hee  re-  5
membring  on  a  time  as  he  ſate  at  Supper,  that  he  bad  trifled  away
the  day  io  doing  nothing,  ſaid,  Ami,  bodse  diem  perdids  :  Friends,  [
haxe  loft  this  day.
11
Tee  ſeehow  large  alciter  1  hae  written  onto  you  with  a
mine  owne  hand.
Here  beginneth  the  concluſion,
being  the  third  generall  part
of
This  Epillle,confifting  oftwo  parts:  an  /»ſnx.ction,  inthe  11.  verſe,
and  a  Recapitslation  in  the  verles  folowing,  He  infiovateth  himſelfe
into  the  minds  of  the  Galatians  by  a  twofold  argument.  Firlt  from  1  g
the  largenetſe  of  his  Epillle,  Teſee  how  large  a
letter  [  have  written  :  fe-
condly,irom  the  in{tramentall  cauſe,in  that  be  writ  it  wth  bis  owne
hind  where  hee  gives  authoritie  to  it,and  a  kinde  of  eminencie  a-
boue  his  other  letters.  Andin  both  he  commendeth  his  diligence,
loue,and  care  which  he  had  of  thern.
20
ion,
T  be  word  tranſlated,  ye  ſee,  is  ambiguous,
and  may  be  taken  ei-
ther  as  a  commandement,See
how  /arpe  a  letter  [  bawe  written  :  or  as
an  a{ſertion,7eſee-,  The  like  ambiguitie  is  in  the  word  pang,
Ph1l.2.5.  and  may  be  read  either  thus,amongi#  whom  you  doe  ſome:  of
ſee  that  you  ſhine  as  ſtarres.  It  is  not  materiallin  whether  exception  25
it  betakenſceing  theſenſe1s  all  one.
The  fiſt  argument  to  moue  the  Galatians  toattention,  and  ac-
ccptation  of  Pauls
painves,  and  good  affettion,  is  taken  from  the
hg
largenes  of  his
Epiſtle.  T  he  word  inthe  originall  tranſlated  /erge,
la  Pl1.118  js  (trapgely  wrelted  by  ſondry  interpreters,without  cauſe.*  Hilay  30
reterring  it  to  theloftinelſeo  ſentences  :  Hyperix«  to  the  profun-
dity  and  depth  ofmatter  :  /erome
to  the  greatnes  of  the  charaRer  :
Cbry/oſtome  and  Tbeopbylatt,to  the  badnes  of  bis  hand,as  not  being:
able  towrite  well;  Hame  to  the  Hebrew  charaRer,  in  which  hee
-\a\:ims
Wrote:  whereas  the  word  doth  not  onely  (ignife  qra/ay,but  as  pro-  35
9  mas
perly  quantuy,as  Heb.,7.4.  Conſider  how  great  this  m.inwas.  And  the
ord  that  anſwereth  vato  it,lignifieth  as  wel  quantitie,as  quality.
nor  35hrs,
Ceoleſſ.2.1,  [  wonldye  knew  what  great  fg  [  hue  ——l  am
Sh
chold,
"ue
«8
bowgreat  a  thing  alittle  fire  hindleth  ?  The  plaine  &  limgyerRaniog
thertoreof  Pautisthis,  that  be  never  wrote  ſolong
an
Mile  with  40:
his  owne  hand  vnto  any  Church,  as  vato  them.  He  writ  indeed
the  Epillle  to  Pb1/\:man  with  bis  owne  haud,  but  that  was  ſhort  ig
compa-
