---
page: 557
pdf_page: 579
sortable_pagination_id: "557"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap.6.
357
ſtorchoule  of
the  Church  :  ſeeing  that  ip  him  are  hid,  not  only  the
treaſures  of  wiſdome  and  bonbde  s  Coleſſ.2.3.  but  of  bountie
and  grace,  /obn  1,16,  aud  of  allſpirituall  blethogs,Zpbeſ.1.3,  For
hrit,by  Chrill  crucified,  we  have  reconciliation  with  God,remif-
5  lion  of  (1vnegand  acceptation  toeternalllife.  Secopdly,we  have
the  peace  of  God  which  paſleth  all  yoderſtanding,  peace  wich
God,  with  Angels,  with  men,  with  our  ſelues,  with  the  creatures.
T  hir6dly,  we  recouer  the  right  and  title  which  we  hadin  the  crea-
tion  to  allthecreatures  and  bleſſipgs
of  God,1,Cor.  3.22.  Fourth-
20  1y,all  affliQions  and  judgements,  ceaſe  to  bee  curſes  and  puniſh-
ments  and  become  either  trialls,or  correRions.  Laſily,death  it
ſelte  is  no  deatb,but  a  {lcepe  :  for  all  that  die  in  the  Lord,are  ſaid  to
lleepe,and  to  reſt  =->_  their  beds,//ai.57.2.  Indeed,it  wee  looke
vpon  death  through
the  glafſeof  the  Law,it  is  the  very  downefall
15  to  cternalideliruction
:  but  if  we  cen(ider  itos-jtis  changed  bythe
deathof  Cheilt,it  is  but  a  paſſogefromthis  tcanGeorie  life  to  eter-
palllife,  Chriſt
by  his  death/batbtaken  away  ſinne,  the  Ning  of
death:  ſo  that  thoughit  ſeazevpon
vs,  yet  (baving  lolt  his  ſting)
it  cannot  hurt  ya  So  that  ip  a  word,in  Chrifornoped  arealltbiogs
20  that a  map  can  glory  of.  It  wee  would  glory  in  knowledge  and
wildome;  he's  the  wiſdome  of  the  Father,ſecingthar  all  eceaſures
of  widdome  and(know)edge  are  hid  io  him  :  and  \therefpre  Pas/
deſired  to  know  nothing  amoog  the  Corinthians,  4ut  Chriift  avd
bum}  crucified,  1,Corimt.2..2,  for  this  knowledgeis  eternall  life,  lobn
-..25  17.3.  If  ip  the  love  8nd  favour  ofgreat  men:  by  him  we  are  high--
ly  aduanced.  into  the  love  and  faugur  of  God,  Epeſ.  1.6,  If  in  ho-
nors  and  riches;  by-þim  weare  made  Kings  and  Prieſts,  4p#c.1.6.
If  inlibertiez  by  bio  weace  delivered  fromthehands
of  our  ene-
mies,  Sipne,  Satap&c,  Luke  1.74.  If  in  pleaſures,  comfort,  and
39  content;  heisourielicitiezin
him  we  are  complete,Co/oſſ.2.  By  him
wee  hauc  right  10  theſe  things  which  eye  bath  not  ſcene,  eare  bath  not
beard  neuher  can  the  beart  of
mancomcerue.,  It  may  bekidaaby  doth
Pan/  glory  inthe  ignominiousdeath  of  Chrift,cather  then  jo  his
glurious  refurreRigngtriumphant  aſcenſion,
and  imperiall  iurifdi-
35  Qion  pow  ſitting  at  theright  band  of  the  Father  ?  Anſwer.  Theſe
arc  not  excluded,but  includedin  the  Crofle:  yet  he  pameth  the
cto(ſeratber4þep  the.  Firlt  of  all,to,ſhew  that  vpoo  the  crotle,
Chriſt  did  fully  finiſh  the  worke  of  aur  red<mption  :  for  becing
now  ready  t@giue  vp  the  ghol;helaid,/s  wfinyacd,  Jebn  1  9.30.this
42  madeP  and  to  deſireto  know  nothing  but  Chrilt,  and  himcruci-
fed,a.Cor.z,  Forinhig  bumiliation{tands  our  exaltation  in  his
weakenelle  (lands  our  ſtrep  grbyin  hisignominic,  our  glorys  _
catns
