---
page: 537
pdf_page: 559
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians,
Chap.6.
337
Lukz.  Some  ſubſcribed,but  not  written  :  as  the  EpiſHlets  the  Ro-
manes,andothers.
Some  both  written,  and  ſubſcribed  :  as  this  Epi-
"Nle,  andchat  to  Philemon,  verle  19.1  hae  written  ut  with  mine  owne
band  :  ]  will  recompenſe  it  —,  Now  that  Pl  ſubſcribed  eucry
Epiſtle  with  his  owne  hand,  bee  him(clfe  witaelleth,  2.7  heſſalon,
wa
3.17.  The  ſalutation  of  mee  Paul  with  mine  owne  band,  which  is  a  ſigne
in  ewery  EpiitHe(thatit  is  mine,  and  not  forged  ia  my  zameby  auo-
ther)/o  /  write  z  The  grace  of  our  Lord  [eſus  Chriſt  bee  with  you  all,  In
which  place  be  warneth  the  Thellalonians  againe  of  falſe  teachers,
»  aud  forged  letters  :  for,  2.7beſſa/on.2.2,hee  bad  beſought  them  they
would  not  be  trowbled  by  ſpirit
nor  by  word,nor  by  letter,  as  though  it  came
from  b1m—.  And  here
he  ſhewes  how  they  may  know  whether  the
EpiſHe  be  his
or  not  :  ifit  hauetbis  Gigne;it  is  mine;els  it  iscounter-
faite:  for  this  noteor  marke  is  to  bee  found  in  all  and  every  oue  of
y  my  Epiltles,  Now  theſe  words[which  is  «  igne  in  every  Epiſtle  cannot
bee  meant(as  ſomeare  of  opinion)of  the  Hamer  words  onely,  viz,
The  ſalatation  of  me  Pant  with  mine  owne  band.  Fir(t,  becauſe  bee  faith,
itis  a  (igne  in  every  Epiltle,whercas  it  is  onely  to  be  found.  1.  Cor.
16.21,Galat,6.11.Col.4.18,  2.7heſſ.3.17.Pbulers,  v.ig  and  not  in
10  any  other  of  his  Epiltles.  Secondly,the  words,ſo  7  write,  ſhould  bee
falſe,  if  they
bereferred  onely  tothe  former  words,  becaule  that
manner  of
{alutation  zis  not  to  be  found  in  cuery  Epiltle,
(as  1  haue
already  ſhewed.)  Andexcept  they  bee  referred  tothe  words  tollow-
ing,7
he  grace  of  owr  Lord  leſs  Chriſt,06c.they  haue  either  none,  ora
ts  very  hard  coaltruRtion.
T  hirdly,if  Pa  falutation(which  be  athir-
meth  to  beea  certaine  note  of  his  Epiltle)  bee  vaderitood  of  theſe
words,  The
grace  of  owr  Lord  [eſws  Chrift,  &<c.it  agreetb  voto  all(as
Anſelme  conteiTeth)whereas  being  meant  of  thetormer  words  one-
ly,  it  dothnot  agreetoall,”  but  to  a  tew  :  and  yet  Paul  makesit,  a
30  generallzinfallible  note,and  ligne  of  every  Epiltle.  Belides,  Ambroſe
and  Promaſins,  in  their  Commentaries  vpon  the  place,  as  allothe
Author  of  the  Commentaries  which  goeth  voder  /eromsname,  at-
firme,  the  ſigne  whereby  we  may  know  Pas/s  Epiſtles  from  coun-
Salutationem
tericite,and  forged  Epiltles,;taconſift  in  theſe  words  :  the  grace
of  onr
appellauit  be.
35  Lord,  &c,  Chryſoſh.and  Theedoret  likewile  fay,  that  Paw!  calleth  the
neditionem
{alutation.a  bened{trongor  bleſſing,  which  is  in  the  end  of  the  Epiitle  :  and
quz  in  fine  ſt
ta  eſt,
alittle  atter,  Hence  we  learne  that  be  was  arcuFomed  to  write  theſe  words,
Hinc  ergo  di.
T  oc  gratt;Ccum  flead  of  adiew  or  farewell  unto  them.
And  Haime(long
ſcimus,quod
atter)expounds  theſe  words,/o  /  write;bow?  (ſaith  he)ewen  thus  as  it
hoc,Grat  ia
40.  followeth,
The  grace  of  our  Lord,  &c,1  graunt  it  is  probablethat  Par!  Domini,&c,
writ  his  owne  name  in  the  end  of  eucry  Epiſtle  (  whether  in  the
pro  eo  quz
eſt  vale  (cri-
Grecke  ton  gue,audia  the  Hebrew  charaQters(as  Hao  ORD)
bere  conſuc-
caue
verat,
