---
page: 56
pdf_page: 78
sortable_pagination_id: "56"
---
Chap.  2.
A  Commentarie
pon
66
and  I  went  by  renelation.  Here  we  are
,that  forthe  journies
we
make  ,  we  areto  have ſome  goodand
ſufficient  warrant:  though
or  that  which  counters
not  arcuelation,  A
ement:  as  when  we  trauaile
by  vertue
of  our  5
uailes  a
callings.  When  Noe had  made  the  Arke,  hee  enters  into  it  at
Gods  commandement:  he  abides  in  it  :  avd  when  the  carth  was
in  partdried  ,  bepreſumes  nottogoe  out,  tillthe  Lord bade  him.
Here  ,three  ſorts  of  men  areto  beblamed,  Pilgrimes,  that  travell
countries  in  the  way  of  merite,
orreli-  ,,
to  lerulalem,  or  other
ion,  For  they  have  no  warrant,  Secondly,  traucllers,  that  goe
countrey  tocountry,andout  ofthe
s  of
the  Church,
>  ROOT
9  "IT
Py
vpon  vainecurialitic,
toſce  faſhions.Sach
whea
they  trauell  from
their  awne  countries  ,  yetthey  travell  norfrom  their  vices,  but
inta  them,  andcome  home  againe,with
many  '5
9  yr.  decper
bad  and  corruptfaſhions.  Thelaſt,  are  Beggers,  and  Rogues,  that
paſſe  from  placeto  place,thac  they  may  liuc
inidlenetle
and  vpon
theſweate  of  other  mens
Thus  much  of  thei
:  now  followes  the  Conference  ,  in
theſe  words;
aud  /  communicated,  cc,  Here  generally  |  gather,that  gz
Confer
and  publike,  are  laudable,  and  ro  bee
...
_—_—
maintained  ſpecially  ,
tend  to  the  maintenanee  of
——_
and  conſentin  doftine,  he  Papiſts  blame  vs  Proteſtants
og  Conferences(
as  they
)  and  Councels.  But
they  doe  vs  wrong.  Indeede  Me
Coodald  of  Trent
we  reietand  25
condemne.  For  in  it  ,  againſt  all
equitie,the  Pope  was  both  pars
had”
temas.
aids.
tie,  and  iudge.  Io  itthere  was  nolibertie
to  make  triallof  cruth.
mu
For  nothing
was  propounded  but  by  the  liking  and  conſent  of
the  Pope.  Againt,the
whole
iconliſted  of  ſuch  as  were  of
the  /rahe»  faitien,  whole  faith  was  pioned  on  the  Popes  (leeue.  $6  |
Neuertheletſe,
we  allow  all  Chriſtian  Coancells,  lawfully  gatbe-
red:  and  we  delirethere  might
be  a  Generall  Councell,  tor  the
triall  of  truth  ,aud  for  the  ſtaying
of  valetled  minds  :  theſe  three
caucats  A  One,  that  the  Councell  be  gatbered
by  Chriſtian
rinces,  to  whomtheright  of  cailiog  a  Councell  be-  35
longs.  The  other,  that  the  _>  be  no  judge,  but  a  partie,  The
third,  that  Chriſtin  bis  word  be  the  judge  ,and  that  the  Delegates
inthe  Councell  be  but  as  witnelles,  determiniog  all  things  by  the
written  word.
In  this  conference,  weare  firſt  toconlider  the  manner  of  con»  49
es
was  vied.  Pax/(a'th  ,he  communicated  with  them,  that
ig  d  downe  vnto  them,  and  expounded  the  Goſpel  wen
Sz
