---
page: 561
pdf_page: 583
sortable_pagination_id: "561"
---
Lind
the  Epiftle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap.5.
5:
kingdomeof
KAlatth.22,  30.  (for  then  Chriſt  willput  downe  all
.1.Ca735.24.  ſo  are  they  not  ofany  mo-
rale,  authoriy,
ment
or  account  inthe
of  grace,  as  Pax/  teacheth;  2,
>,
Cor.5.16.G4.3,28.Colofſ.3.11.
ſt  may  beſaid,  theſe  priviledges
V®  +
ward  things,  as  Prince,
;Maſter,
and  feryanc:
tree,  &c.  have  placein  t
gdome  of  grace,  fecing
{tiavity  doth  not  aboliſh  nature,  nor  civillpollicy,  To  which
I  anſwer,  that  man  mult  becon(idered  two  waics,inreſpeR  of  the
outward,or  inward  man.Conlider  him  as  he  is  a  member,  in  civil
10  ſociety,as  ofthe
family,  Chorch,or  Common-wealth  :  there  are
ſundry  differences  ofperſons,as  bond,  free;magiltrate,  ſubiec  ;
poore,rich  &c.in  which  ſenſe
the  Apolt.  exhortationtaketh  place,
Wier,  ſubmitte  your  ſelner  to  your  buſbands,  Coloſſians  3.  18,Children,
obey  your  perentiyuerſe.  10.  ſernants,  be  obedient
toyour  miſters,  verſe  22.
15  Butif
be  conhderedinreſpet  of  his  ſpirituall  eſtate,as  he  is
a  member
otthe  inuilible,or  Chatholique  Church,  vader  fpiritual
government,  conlilting  i»  reghteonſneſſe,  peace  of  conſcience  and  toy  in
the  bolyGhoſt.
Rom.  14.17.  there  is  nodiſtinion  of  calling,  conditi-
09,
or  ſexe  ;  fer  we  areall
one  ins  Chrift.  Gal.3.verſe  28,  or  Chriſt
is  all
10  and  inal/tbmgr.  CEE  that  though  we  be  many,  yet  are  we
but  one
in
Chriſt.  Row.  1  2-verſe  5.  ſeeing  we  are  quickned
with  ogeſpicit.  Epb.q.ver/e
4.  T  be  Popiſh  opinion  therefore  which
ack  cheichero  before  outward  callings  and  ations  which
IDEN  a  lingle  life,  to  —_—  _
"5
SIE.
obedience,  toprofelſe  monkery,
wbober  etkwconty  or  toab(lainefrom  theſe  and  thels
meates,
is  here  condemned,  when  Pax/faitb;that  outward  priui-
es  will  not  ſeruethe  turne,and  that  meate  commendeth  v1  net  ro
God,1.Cor  88,
zo
Agaioe,  neitherthisnor
the  like  places  Gal.  3.ver.28.Col,  3.17.
do  any  thing  fauourthe  Anabaptilticallfavcy,  ot  briogiog  io  an
anarchie,that
is,an  ataxy  into  Chriſtian  ſociety  ,  by  taking
away
chriſtian  magiſtrates,and  diſtinAion  betwixt  walter  and
for  by  the  ſame  reaſon  we  may  confound  the  ſexe  of  man  and  wo-
35  manzfor  Pas/  ſaith,  theres  neither
male  nor  female,  but  weare
all  one
iv  Chriſt;  the  meaving  thereof  is  this.that  although  in  reſpe&  of
our  inward  or  ſpirituall
ellate  before  God,  there  be  no  ſuch  diffe-
rence:  yet  that  bindreth  not  but  there  may  bein  reſpect  of  our  out>
ward  eſtate.
4  Further,  welearne  from  hence,  that  no  man  is  tothinke  bigh-
ly  of  himſelfe  in  regard  of  outward  priviledges,  as  birth,  honour,
Wealth,  fauour,  nor  to  glory  in  —_—  23.rich  men  malt  _
0  ©
