---
page: 562
pdf_page: 584
sortable_pagination_id: "562"
---
pon
A  Commentarie
Chap.6,
x62.  _
be  bigh  minded.  1.75m.6.17.  -  Nay,  the  King  may not  lift  vp  his
mind  aboue  his  brethren.D
ewe.  17440.  Paxls  exampleis  nota
whoaccounted  allcheprivi
which  he  had  before  his  conuer-
he  was  acitizen  of  Roare,  a  Pha-
ſion,whilell  he  was
Gametie!,  of  therribe  of  Seal
rilic;a  greatRabbin,i
mm,circumciſed  the
)  avCafter.  bis  converſion  be
HIS
chriſtian(as  that  he  was  an  Apollle,take  vp  into  the  3.  heaven
&)
to  beas  nothiogzor  worſe  agnora—for  Gogele  re-
ſpe  of  beeing  a  new  creaturein  Chrilt,thatis,inreſpeR
ot  iullif-
cation,and  lanAufication.  And  therefore  we  may not  ſet  our  minds  419
coo  much  vpon  outward  things,as  riches-honors,plealures:
ſeeivg
they  are not  avayleableto  ſalvation,
Belides,  this  teachethal  thoſetbat  are  but  in  mean  &  baſc  ellate,
to  becontent
:  for  outward
priui
wantsand  a  ES  inn  6
na  pins  Er  Feiggoting  Is
the  nearer,&
if  he  be  poore,heis
nota  whitthe  further
pouerty  ofthe  ſpicit,  which  makes  a  man  rich  in  grace  :  far
the
poore  man  be  the  rich  mans  (laue,  yet  be  is  the  ſonne  of
God,
od  fellow  beyre  with  Chriſt:  and  though  the  cich  man  beethe
ponrn  ned  malter,  yet
he  is  the  ſeroant
ot  Chrilt,  as  Paw!  faith,
be  *®
that
is  called  beeing  a  ſerwant,  is  Gods  froe  man;  aud  by  that  is  called  being
free,ss  Chriſts  ſernant.1,Cor,7,22,
Laſtly,this  crolleth  the  opinion
of  the  mulcitude,who  thinke
that  if  a  man  be  increaſed
in  riches,  graced  wich  tauvur,aduanced
with  honour,
that  be  is
agodly,  wile,  religious  man  ;  20d  that
re-  #
ligion  which  he
is  the  truth.  This  is  oothing
elſe  but
to  bane
the  faith  of  onr  Lord  Teſus  Chriit  in  reſpett  of
perſons.  lanes  d.
uerſel.
T  he  ſecond  concluſion
is,  that  the  new  creature
is  the  onely
thing
thatisa
to  God,  Cirewmcrſron,  0.  anadleth
nothing,
3"
=  =  the  xew.creature,  the  Apollle  wn  yas.
the  imageof  God,  or  renouation  ofthe whole  man,both  ia  the  ſpi
rits  of  our  minds,
and  in  the  affeRions
of  our  bearts,  which  isal-
ſo  called
the  new  man.  We  ſhall  the  better  conceive  it  by  the  con-  1s:
trary,  namely,  by  chad  wen,  whichis,  want  of  kapwledgein  the
minde,
and  delight
in.igoorance
:  want  of  ſubieion
and  confor»
mitieinthe  will,  and.  —  _  _want  of  homes  io  the
a  _—
nenest0
evill,  7be new  man  then,is  the  rellonng
of  al  theſe
defeQts.  For  the  vnderſtanding  hereof,colider;that
there  ,,.  |  .
are  three  things  mncheſoule,  The  ſubſtance
of  the  ſoulettbe  facul-
ties,or  powers  of  the  ſoule\:and  thequalities  of  thetc  faculties.
Now
neither  che  lubitance  nar  faculties  acelolt  by  the  tall,  but  oney
