---
page: 563
pdf_page: 585
sortable_pagination_id: "563"
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap
6.  363
_  thequalities
of  the  faculties:  as  when  an  in(rument
is  out  oftuoe,
the
is  norinthe  ſubſtance
of  che  in{troment,norin
the  ſound,
but
in  the  diſpropertioo,or
iarrein  the  ſound  :  therefore
the  qua-
litiesonelyare
grace.  Thele  guabtie  or  habits,are  ci-
$  /therin  the  VadertinNg  Seas  <Rions.
The  qualitie  in
$8  thevaderſtandiog,  om  CnP306  Tee  bane  put  onthe  new
manywiuch@  renewed  in
ige,  after
the  im  ge  of  bim  that  created
bam.
In  the  will  and  affeQions,  they  are  pnepet  pan  righteonſ-
apron
weſſe,both  which  are  in  truth  and  ſyoceritie,  withouc
rw  all  bypocriſie,  Epb.4.2  2.P
as  on  the  new  man,  which  after  God  us  crea-
Led
im  74
and  true  hdlines  :  where  bolines  and  righteenſneczare
toconcupiſcences,and  lolts  ofthe  old  man  :  Trarb  (which
hath  relation  to  both)  to  ſpiricuall  guile,and  diflimulation  :  fo  that
each  of  theſe  qualities,  have  two  parts,a  want  of  the  contrarie  evill,
$1  and  a  poſitive
qualitie  or  babit  of  goodnelle,  Hwlineſſe  reſpeReth
God,and  pare,  vc  all  duties  of  pietie,cooteined  in  the  firlt  table:
Rigbteon/ne;
eſpe  ts  man,and  the  ereatureyzand
comprileth
all  the
-  dutiesenioyned
in  the  ſecondtable.  7rucb  reſpeReth  the  manner
-how  both  the  former  are  to  be  praiſed,
viz.  with  an  vpright  and
20  (jacere  beart,free
from  all  hypocrilie  and  deceit.  Theſethree  ma-
Rs  Pe  eleſer  doria
;  by  the  faculties
of  Qs
{oule:  Hel
formiog
allt
ties  of  pictie
:  rigbteonſnes  the  duties  of  buma-
nitie  ;  os  Geogien  both  the  former  with  (inceritie.
But  (ſome  may  ſay  )  how  is  the  new  creature  oppoſedto  all  ex-
25  ternall  things,or  laid  to  be  of  any  force  inthe  kingdomeof  Cheilt,
ſceing  itis  not  auaileableto
iullifte  a  man  before  God;being  (lai-
ned  with  manifold
?  Foranſwer  whereof,
we  are  to
know,that  outward  things  areſometime
ed-to  Chrilt,  and
his  righteouſnetſe,as  Col.  3.1  1.7  here  i  neither
[ew,  nor  Grecian,cir-
39  cuntcſion
nor  uncircumerfion,
cc  but  Chriſt  is  all,and  mn  all
things.  ome-
timeto  faith,as  Gal.5.5.  Neuber  circumcifion  auaileth
any  thmg,  nor
wncireumcifien,but  fanh  which  wor  keth
by  lowe.  {ometime  to  the  new
creature
or  ſanRibcation,asin  this  place,and  1.Cor.,7.29.  Cucnm-
35  "fon  is
not
,C&6.but  the  keeping  of  the  command\:e  ments  of  God.  But
the  ſcnſeis  all  one,  fortbey  are  oppoled  co  Chrilt,asto  the  matter
of  our  iullification  \:to  faith  asto  the  inſtrument  apprebending  it  :
to  the  newcreature,as  tothe  ligne  ofthem  both.
Further;whercas  both  here,  and  2.Cr.$.27.,  the  imageof  God
.  |  46  iscalled  «  new  crearnvey  (or  a6-itis  inthe  origitall[agri  &lin-]«  wew
|  pra  ag
meaning  is  nor,  that  either  the
tub(tance,  or  faculties
ofthe
are  created  avew  z  but  that  the  worke  of  regenerati-
onis  wholly  to  be  aſcribed  to  God  alone,  (not  asthough  we  were
Oosz
ſocks
