---
page: 564
pdf_page: 586
sortable_pagination_id: "564"
---
Chap.6.
A  Conmentavie
pou
locks
or  (tones  without
life  or  motion)  but  becauſe  God  doth
creats  theſe  new  qualities  in  vs;  quickning  vs  when  wee  were
dead  in  (fine,  and  working  in'vs  both  the  will,  andthe  deede.
bilip.s.13.
IF
jon  then  bee  4  new  creation,  it  mult  needes  follow,
5.
thar
our  converſion
wEwere  not  onely  dead,  but  even  flat
nothiog,in  godlineſſe,and  grace.  By  which  we  ſee  what  to  iudge
of  the  Sem-pelagi.in  herelie,  which  teacbeth,chat  a  man  by  an  carey
nm  prinepinm,  may  diſpoſe  himſelte  to  will  that  which  is  trudy
good  :  and  that  man  is  not  F#wke  dead  in  (inne,  but  onely  ficke  or  1s
wonnded,and  balfe  dead,as  the  man  which  tell  among  theeurs,  Lak,
10,07
2s  a  prifoner  that  is  ſhackled  and  manackled,who
can  walke
of  himſelfe,  if  his  fetters  be  taken  from  him
:  ſo  we  (if  Chriil  looſe
thechaines  of  our  (linnes)  have  power  of  our  ſelues  to  mooue  our
ſelves.Which  dofrinewe  know  is  mol}  injurious  to  the  mercy  of  i  5
God  and  mol]  derogatorie  to  the  merits
of  Chriſt,  ſeeing  it  makes
him  inthe  worke  of  our  faluation,  to  bee  but  canſa  —
hibens  which  (as  Logicians  teach)  is  but  cauſa  ſine
qua  non,which
in
truth  is  no  cauſe  ar  all.  So  that  they  make  themſelves  their  owne
Saviours,  and  Chriſt  to  be  but  an  inſirument  whereby  they  ſave  ;g
themlelucs  :  for  if  hee  doe  but  remooue  the  impediment,  they
without  any  more  adoe,  arc  able  to  mooge  and  a  themſelves.
When  as  the  converſion  of  a  finner  is  as  great  a  worke  as  the
creation  of  heaven  and  earth  :  for  Pa  calleth  it  here  x  new  creati-
ov,  Nay  here  is  a  greater  power  required  (if  |  may  fo  fpeake)then  z  5
that  whereby  the  world  was  created.
For  though  an.intinite
er  be  required
ay  well  tothe  creating  ot  the  greatworld,as
there-
creating  or  regenerating  ofthe  lefſe  world,  as  our  Saviour  Chritt
ſignities,  Aark  2.9.  Whether  is
it  eafer
to
ſay  to  the  ſicke  of  the  palſie,
ſonnes  are  forginen  thee,or  19  ſay,  Ariſe  taks  wp  thy  bed  and  walk:  ?  30
yet  the  holy  Ghoſt  ſeemeth,of  thetwo,  to  make  it  more  dithcult,
tocreate
a  new  heart,  then  a  new  world,  inthat  ſpeaking
of  the
creation  ofthe  world,he  faith  it  was  made
by  tbe  word  of  God,
By.
rhe  word  of  the  Layd  were  the  heauery  made,  Pal.  33.6,01  by  his  fin-
gers,when  /  conſider
the  heaven;  the  workes  of
thy  fingers.  Pſal.8,3.  of  1,
by  b's  hands,  I  ſa/m,102:25,  The  heavens  are  the  works:  of  thy
hand.  Butthe  redemption  of  man,  and  thecoonerlion  ofa  (inner,
18  ſaid  to  be  wrought
by  the  «-1ve  of  God,  Marie
in  her
fieat,
faich,
He  hath  ſhowed  firemgth  with  bu  avme,  Luz  $4.  nay,
was
faine  to  ſet  his  fideto  it,  and"ie  made  him  ſhed  mary  a
teare,and  49
fweat  as  it  were  dro»s  of  blowd  trickling  downe  16  the  grand.  Luk,  12.
44  Before  our  conucrlion,weare
like  the  drye  bones,  Ex4h,37.  for
as
