---
page: 565
pdf_page: 587
sortable_pagination_id: "565"
---
FI.
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians,
Chap.s.
»,
J55
as  when
the  winde  of  God  came  vpon  them,bone
came  to  bone,
and  were  ioyned  with  (inewes,  and  covered  with  fleſh,  and  had
their  ſenles  reſtored:  ſo  when
the  Spirit  of  GodJlike  the  favonian
winde,bloweth
vait  revivetb  vs  agaioe,  giving  vs  a  new  lite,
—  rem  new  wills,  and  affeRions
:  for  el  old  things
ce  4w41,end  all
things
become  new.2.Cor.5.17.  For  it
eth  the
eyes  of  ourvnderſtanding,makivg  vs  diſcerne  of  thing  chet
differ.
Epb.1.18,  Pbily.1.10.  it  boareth
a  new  care  of  obedience
in  vs,
T[al,40.6.and  giueth  vs  a  new  taſt,not  toſauour  the  thiogs  ofthe
ro  fleſh,but
of  the
Spirit.
Kew,
$. 5.
Further,  this
to  deteR  the  natuall  Poperie
of  the  multi.
tudce,and  of  our  owne  hearts,  when  we  perſwade  ourſelues(though
falſely)that  t
we  goe
on  in  our  (innes,yet
that  we  can  repent
when  we  liſt,  When
as  the  Prophet  ſaith,  ©  Lord  1  know  that  the
15  wey
of  man  is  notin  bimſeife:  and  Pax!  {aith,that  it
is  as  greata  worke  ,__
tocreatea  new  heart,as  tocreatea  new  world:  for  regeneration  is  Q,;  4.1,  >
faith  well,  Herbat  will  grant  j  oxnuenti  ve-
anew  creation,  2.Cormth.  5.17,  Augnitine
pardon
to  bum  that  repents,  will  not  alway  gine  repentance  to  bins  that  iam,  ron  d+
fe  pecanti
Againe,in  theſenſethat  Pas!  calleth  the  image
of  God,  a  newe
*  =  ientiam,
20
creature,or  the  new  man,and  corruption  the  old  man  :  we  grant;that
ourreligion
is  new;and  Popiſh  religion  is  old.  For
as  the  new  man
is
dimage
of  God,  in  which  Adam  was  firlt  created,
though
afterwards  defaced  by  bi  owne  inventions,  Eccler,  7.31.  50
25  ourreligion
is  the  reſtored  or  reformed  dorine  firſt  taught  by  the
hich  atterward
was  corrupted
by  mens  devices.  Albeit,
in  7Terexlent
(enſc,  ours  is  the  old  religion,and  theirs  the  new  2:  2s  Quod  1n\:i.
COEEIED  theold  man,and  corruptionthe  new.
quſſinum,  id
:\''Vie,  If  we  benotchanged  in  oor  lives,  butremaine
old  :  Adams  Vi  fmuin,
$0  ltill,coen  rbeſame  men  we  were  before,  in  minding,willing,  atfe-
Qing  earthly  things,  and  faſhioning  our  ſelues  __  guiſe
of  the
world  ,  we  are  nonew  creatures,  though  wee  promiſe  and  proteſt
never  ſomuch  :  weare  but  hypocrites,  deceiving  others,  andovur
felues  alſo.  For  where  this  new  creature  is,  there  is  a  change  in  all
{5  the  facultics-and  powers  of  foule  and  body  :  the  mipdeis  not  fet
vpon  the  world,  but  mindeth  heavenly  things  :  the  will,attections,
and  converſation  of  the  whole  manzis  in  heaven.  Php.  3.20.  For
the  Spirit  of  regeneration  is  likethe  leaven  which  a  woman  tooke
and  hid
in  three  pecksof  mealerill  all  war  leauened  :  for  after  the
40  ſame  manmneriby
a  ſecret  operation  italtereth  the  minds  will,atte-
Qtione,
If
any  be  w  Chriſt,(faith  the  Apoltie)be  uw  a  new  creature,  0/0
things  are  paſſed  away  beboldy.ll  things  are  become  new.1t  therefore  _=
Oo  +4
