---
page: 545
pdf_page: 567
---
the  Epiſtle
ts  the  Galatians,
Chop.6.
f45
Firltlet  vs  obſerueout  of  theſe  words,they  compel!  yew  to  be  circum.
ciſed,that  Pan!  doeth  not  onely  viſe  Chrillian  pollicie,  but  dealeth
very  rhetorically  ,  excuſiog
the
Galatians  ,  as  though  they  were
conltrained  againſt  their  wils  to  doe
as  they  did:  and  layivg  allthe  *
5  blame  vpon  the  falſe  apoſtles  :  and  ſo  doeth  cloſely  alienate  their
affection  from  thele  ſeducers,  who  would  haue  them  circumciſed,
gither  by  voluntary  ſubmillion,or  by  violent  compullion\:the  like
godly  pollicy  we  ought  to  vicin  dealing
again(t  heretikes,  &  tajle
teachers,that  the  peoples  minds  may  beeftranged  from-themyabd-
19  take  no  love  of  eheirdofrine.noriiking  of  their
$64  36  B  0724
Here  we  havea  ſecond  note  offalſeteachers,which  is,not  onely
toretaine  ceremonies  themſelues,  but  to  vrgethem  vpon  others,
and  covltraine  men  tothe  obſcruing  of  them:  tor  they  weremore_
carnelt  and  forward  in  vrgiog.circumcilion(theirewnedwilſe)
15  then'the  keeping  of  the  —_—  law\:iand  ſoarcall  ſeducers,”  The
Phatilies  did  vrge  their  owne  ceremonies,
as  waſhing  before  meat,
waſhing  of  potts,cups,and  beds,&c,  more  then  the  commande-
met  of
God.  Andthe  Papilts  vrgethe  Lent  falt  more  (trialy.then
faltiog  from  ſinne,whichis  the  only  true  fall,  //a.  58.5.  [And  their
10  owne  (tories  doe  ſhew,that  men  have  bin  moretcucrely  puniſhed,
for  eating  fleſh  ypon  good  Friday,  then  tour  commireing  ot:  limple
fornicatioo,or  tollowing  of  ſtrange  fletb,  T  bey  ttand  morein  vr-
ging  the  outward  worſhipping  ot  an  image,  or  apiece  of  bread,
then  the  inward  fpirituall  worſhip.  And  as  they  have  made  the
5  Saints  daies  equall  with  the  Sabbath  dates,1o  baue  they  made  the
prophanation
of  themanequalliinne,  and  bavepuuiſhed  it  with
equall  poryſhmene,
It  is  further  to  bee  obſerued,how  they  abule  circumciſion;  for
whereas  by  Gods  ordinanceit  was  buta  ſcale  of  the  rrghteowſneſſe  of
30  f.uth;Kom  4.11.  they  peruerting  the  end  of  it,make  it  a  meritori-
ous  cauſe  of
ſaluation;  and  therefore  compel!  wen  to  bee  emenmenſed  :
itis  Gods  worke,  they  makeit  their  owne  worke,  yealuch  a  work
as  by  which  they  hope  to  bee  ſaued,  And  this  their  dealing  may
fitly  bee  paralleled  by  thePopiſh
praRiſe  at  this  day,  in  making
35  baptiſme,which  is  but  a  ſigne  and  feale  of  grace,  to  beethe  proper,
immediate,aod  phylicallcauſe  of  conferring  grace  by  the  worke
wrought.  Almes,prayer,and  fafting  (which  ace  but  t1gnes  and  te-
llimonies  of  uti  Feation)tv  be  cauſes  thereof.
Nay  their  owne  de-
viſes,of  confe(lion  ſatisfaRtion,ſupererogation,  to  be  meritorious
4  cauſes  of  iullification  and  faluation,
Laſtly,
ſee  heere  how  the  peruerſeneſſe  of  the  corrupt  heart
of  man,doeth
thwart  the  ordinanceof  God.  As  long  as  circum  -
Nn
C1110N,
