---
page: 546
pdf_page: 568
---
346
Chap.6.
A  Commentarie
pou
cilion  was  cammannded  by  God,  moſt  abhorred  it  ;for  the  hea-
A  pella  Judz-
Us.
then  teſlieſomuch
that  the  lewes  were  odious  for  it.  But  now
beeing  aboliſhed,they  take  it  vp  againe  zreceive.it,  avd  vegeit  asa
thiog  ncceſſary  to  be  obſerved  vpon  paine  of  damnation.  Where  .
asif  God  ſhould  enioyne  it  again,  they  would  (nodoub:)account  it  5
2520  heauy  yoke,  which  neither  they
nor  their  fathers  were  ableto
beare.  This
improving  of  that
which
God  commands,  and  appro-
ing
that  which  he
forbids  argoesthegreat
corroptis  ofthe  hear,
and  that  the  wiſedome  ofthe  fleſh  is  not  onely
an  encmie,  but
e-
uen  flat  enmity  eqainſt  God,  Row.  8  7.)tmult  thereforethertore  teach.  19.
vstocaptiuate  our  reaſon,and  tolubicR  or  will;  tothe  wil  of  God
ioallthioge,
T  hethurd  property  of  the  falſe
Apollilesis,  theteachiog
of  cir-
—  RN  yo
they  ny  ſuffer  per-
ecntion  for  the  creſſe  of
Chriſt,that
is,for  preaching  the
true  *doArine  15
icheGoſ  »  concerning  Chrilt  crucified.  Ms  bordumendel
whether  it  was  neceſſarie  that  thoſe  which  taught  not  circumcili-
on,  but  ſpake  againſt  it,  ſhould  be  perſecuted?  To  which  |  anſwer,
that  it  wasnecetlary,  according
as  Paw!  athrmeth.Gal.  5.11.  If  I  20
reach
cire  nmeifion  ,  why  doe  1  yet  ſuffer  perſecution?  T  he  reaſon  was
this.
The  Romane  Emperour
bad  given  liberty  tothe  lewes  to
live  according  totheir  owoe  lawes,  and  that  without  moleſtation
or  diſturbance,
in  all
of  the  Romane  Empire,  ſothat  if  a  ,  ,
lewe  became
Chriltian,
he  had  tbe
priviledge  of  a  Iewe,  ſo  ©
long  as  he  kept  the  ceremoniall  hand  renghe  no  departing  from
Aoſer\:wheras
they  which  taught,that  ceremovies  wereabrogated,
.  andchat  men  were  iuſtified  onely  by  faith  in  Cheiſt,wanted  this
priviledge,  and  ſo  were  perſecuted  of  no  men  morethen
of  the
I  ewes,  either  by  themſelues,
or  by  incen(ing  others  againſt  them.  30
1.  Thef.  2.15.16.Thefalle  Apolllesthereforeto  avoide  perſecu-
tion,  coyned  a  new  Goſpel  z  in  matter
of  faluation,  ioyning
Chcill
Tlieron  in
and  Mes,  ioftification  by  faith  ,  and  by  workes.  So  that  here
Conment.an
we  have  another  charaQer  and  marke  of  talſeteachers,  which  is,  ”
hnac  locum.
to  labour  by  all  meanes  to  enioy  the  world,  and  to  eſchewe
thecrolle,  and  rather  then they  willſuffer  perſecution,  to  makea  .
|  hotch-potch  of  reſiſpnne  we  may  ſee,  not  ovely  by  this  particu-
lar,but  by  the  courſe
of  the  hiſtory  ofthe  Church,  aod  ip  latter
times,  by  the  [nterim
vader  Charles  the  fift,and  the  fixcarticles  va-
der  Henrie  the  eight\:by  our  mediators  and  reconciliators,  who  el-  49
th2r(as  it  is  aid  of  old  Con\:ibiator)labour  toaccord  fire  &  water:
0r  +
elſelike  hackſters  mixe  wineand  water  for  their  owne  advantage  :
&  by  all  acuters  and  mungrilsin  religion,who  hover  in  the  wind,
becauſe.
