---
page: 547
pdf_page: 569
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chap.6.
347
aut
would  and  furefor
all  aſſaies,or  winne  thefagour
of
great  men,  that  they  mighe  noe  ſtand  in  the way  of  their  prefer-
ment,  This  isthe  ſinne  of  the  multitude  among  vs,wbodeſireto
have  Chrilt,  but  they  will  none
of  his  crotle  :  they  would  bee  with
5s  him  vypon  mount  Tibor,  but  not  ow  mount  {
a/xerie,  crowned
with  glory,but
not  crowned  with
es.
thorn
FE
Further,  we  may  hence  gather  an  ciſentiall  difference  of  the  true
and  falſe  teachers  :  the  one  ſeekes
the  good  of  the  Church,  the  ©-
ther  ſeeks  themſclues  :  theone  the  glory
of  God,  the  other  their
19  owne  glory.  It  is  obſerned  by  Popiſh  prieſts  and  others,  that
though
the  [efuits  pretend  they  doe  all  things  ordine  a4  Dewnr,,
yet  they  intend  themſclues,dooing
all  things  a»  ordine
ad  ſeipfo:  :  it
a  —_—  —  inall  their  Machiauclian  plottes
pollicies,
cum
dignetate  ocrum,a  Lordly  com-
15  mend.ande
letfie  life.  -
IC
weſee  that  the  loue  ofthe  truth,and
of  the  world,
the
ot  the  face  of  man,  and  the  feare  of  God  can  never
ſtandtogether.  As  alſo  bow  dangerous  athing  it  is  to  be  addicted
20  tothe  love  of  the  world  :  for  it  hath  beene  alwaics  the  cauſe  of  re-
golt,in  that  men  never  imbraced  religion  ſo,as  that  they  could  be
contented  to  ſuffer  perſecution  for  the  profellion
of  it,  nor  lay
downetheir
lines  in  the  maintenance  thereof,  Afath.  1  3.21.
A:  ſoon:
2  5  ©  tribulation
or
yerſecntion  cometh,  by  and  by
they  are  offended.
\Nhere-
as  weought  to  have  theſame
minde
that
Paw  had,  who  knowing
that
and  impriſonment
aboad  him,  yet  patſcd  not  forthem,
neither  was  his  life  deare  voto  him,  A#.20.23.  and  was  not  onely
ready  to  be  bound,but
to  dye  alſo,for  the  name
of  the  Lord  lefus.
»  48.24.13.
The  reaſons  which  ſhould  make  vs  willing  to  take  vp
39  curcroſſeand  follow  Chrifi;are  theſe.  Firlt,itis  a  great  mercy  and
fauour  ofGod,  that  we  arcaccounted  worthy  to  ſuffer  any  thing
for his  ſake.  42.  5.41.7
be
Apoitles
departed  from  the  councell  reioycing
that  they  were  enact  morſe  8  for  his  neme.Secoodly,
it  is  a  meanes(by
the
iftull  promiſe  of  God,)to  procure  and
3s
obtaine  the
s  of  this  life.
Meh.  10.30.  Thirdly  it  bath  ble(-
ſedneſſe  annexed  to  it,  with  a  promite  of  aliltance  and  _  of
the  name  of  _  le  fed
Gods  Spirit,  1.Per.4.1  1.1f  nr  ore  =
on  their
you,  which
ypon
reſteth
and  of  God
Spirit  of  glory
yee,  for  the
ave
your  part  us  glorified,  FLaltly,che  end  of  the
wefel;  G7
ala  rr
we  ſhall  alſo  be  glori-
40  crofle.is  glory  voſpeakeable,/f  we  /»ffer  with  him,
fied  with  bim.Rom.S  17.
Further,  whereas  Saint  Pas!  linketh  together  perſecution,  and
the  preachiog  of  the  croiſe,  we  may
{ce  that  the  profeſſion  of  the
Nao  3
Golpel,
—  -
