---
page: 57
pdf_page: 79
sortable_pagination_id: "57"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.2.
67
preached
and  this  be  did  privathy,tbatis,with  the  A
|  pI  rv
one,
in  plaineand  familiar  maner;as
ie
Theretore  forthe  maintaining  of  thisconterence,  there  was  noaf-
ſembly  made,neither  was  there  any  diſputation  held.  Onely  Paul
-  declares  his  dorine,andthey  giue  alſent.  Hence  it
appeares;that
Paul  doth  not  ſubmit  the  truth  of  bis  doQtine  totrisll.  For  he  was
refoluedofit,and  be  accurſedhim  that  taughtotherwiſe\:but
his  4n-
tent  was  to  ſeeke  the  approbationof  the  Apoltles,  that  he  might
ſtop  the  mouth  of  his  aduerſaries.
211
pige
10.  The  ſecond  point  is,the  matter  ofthe  conference,  &  that  isthe
Goſpel  which  Pas/  preached.  Here  the  Papilt  gatheretb,thatthe
Church  is  the  iudge  in  all  queſtions  pertaining  toreligzangnd  the
word:  becauſcit  is  here  the  thing  that  igiudged,  /Fan{weryghrlt
that
they  gatheramnille,  For  Pan  doeth  not.  beereſubmit  the  Goſpel
15  which  be  preached,to  the  iudgemeant  otthe  Church  of  lerulalem.
Andit  is  falſe  which  they
teach  :  tor  the  ſoucraigne  ludge  of  all
queſtions  and  -  mms  Gor
religions  Cheiſtalone,  The  power
todetermine  andrefulueas  cales  concerning  faith  and  good  life,is
inſeparably  annexed  to  his  perſon;  and  in  it  are  wetorelt.  The
20  principall  voice  of  the  iudge.&  the  deboutive  ſenience,is  the  writ-
ten  word,  Andrtheothceot  the  Church,is  no  more  but  to  gather,
declarexeltifie  &  pronounce  tais  ſentence.
ltis  obieted,that  when
a  queſtion  is  propounded,  the.  Scripture  canout  ſpeake,  nor  Chrilt
inthe  Scripture,but  the  Churcbonely  ;  1  anfver  againe.that  God
25  aſcribes  tothe  written  word,  a  voice,
or  ipeecb,Rom.  3  15,  And  the
{criptureſpeakesſuthciently,totherefolving  ot  any  mans  conlci-
ence,  in  all  matterspertayn  og,  tofaluation.  Againe,  they  alledge,
that  rhe  Chorch  18  betore  the  ſcriptures  and  therefore  it  beeing
molt  auncient,  mult  be  the  ludge.  |  aafwer,that  the  Church  was
o—_—_—
[20  before  the  wntivg  of  the  word,  but  not  beforethe  ward  which  is
written,  For  the
Church  prefuppoſeth  fairh,  and  faith  preſuppe-
ſeth  a  word  of  God.  Vpon  this  our  doctrine;  they  further  vpbraid
vs;thatwe  wil  be  tried  by  nothiog,
but  oy  the  Scriptures,cuen  a5
the  malefactour,  that  will  net  beetried  by  the  Quelt,  but
by  the
35  evidence,  |  anſwer,
tor  the  latiſtying  of  our  adveriaries,  we  ſubmit
our  ſeluesto  thetriall  of  the  Church  and  Counccls,  ſobee  it,  the
TE  PIES
OR.»  eos
Fu,
three  cautions  before  remembred  be  duly  obſcrued  ;  ſpecially  that
allthings  bewdged,and  tried  by  the  writtcn  word,and  by  reaſons
gatheredthence.
40
Apaine;  the  Papilts  herice  gather,that  the  Scriptures  are  tobee
approoued  by  the  Church,  An/w,  Thus  much  wee  gravut  :  yet  {0
as  we  hold,  that  the  pgincipall  approbatiou  ot  the  word,  (whereby
wee
