---
page: 570
pdf_page: 592
sortable_pagination_id: "570"
---
$70  Chap  6.
.  A
Commentarie
you
comfort  ys:
the  conflicts
that  a  dillreiled  conſcience
hath  with
terrours,and  theanger
of  Gad.  By  mercie  (wbich
is  the  cauſeof
this  peace)
are  vader(tood,  all  fpirituall  bleſſings,
which  flow  vatovs  from  theloue  and  fauour  of  Godio  Chrilt,as  ;
remiſſion
of  (inges,  iuſtification,  lanRikcatioo,
and  eternall  lifeit
ſelſe,  The  words  is"  dures,  vpeuthem,bave
great  emphaſis,ligoity-
ing,that  theſe  ble{lings  come  downe  from
,and  light  vpon
them  tbat  follow  this  rule,  and  that  they  cannot  bee  hindered  by
the  malice
of  men.
19
Letthe  Popetbenanathematize,curſe,
and  excommunicate  vs,
both  Princeand  people,  becauſe
wee  tread  notin  the  (teps
of  his
faich,but
in  thefaith  ofour  father  Abre<bam,  and  walkenot  accor-
ding
to  hisrule,but  accordingtothisrule  of  the  Apoſtle:  for  wee
need  not  feare  his  thonderbolts  nur  curſes,  ſeeing  the  canſeleſſecmrſe  15
fhallnenercome,Pron,2.6.2,  for  what  though  hee  curſe,  it  God  doe
bleiſe  2  ]It  wasthething  that  comforted  Dond  being  curledof
his
enemieyin
that  chowgh  they
did  curſe,  yet  God  wonldb1\:fſe,Pſal.109,18
and  let  ys  comfort
our  {elues  in  this;that  be  will  carſe  rbem  that  curſe  10
bus  people,Gew.  12.3.
Againe,  i
mercie  ſhall  bee  vpon  them  that  walke
according  to
wrath  and  indigoation  ſh3l  light  vpon
thoſe
that  follow  any  otber  rule  ,  or  deviſe  any  other  way,  or  (et
downe  any  other  meanes  of  {aluation  belides,or  contrary  tothis.  **
Falſe  thereforeis  the  opinion
of  Packſins,  that  if  amanleade
an
Taken  the
Toke  inbie  Mahamerifes
the  lew  ia  bis
bis
Mahametiſme,
the
Heathen
in  _—
that  walke  not  io  this  way  mm
rule,doe
but  weary  thenſclues
in  endle(ſe  Labyrioths:  and  fo  wal-  zo
_  Kiog  w
or  rule
in  thei  crooked  waies,  ſhall  bee  led  with  wor-
ſhall
be  pon  Tſracl,  Pſal.
125.5.Other  vics
ag.10  .and  31.  to  which  places  [
peace  and  meecie  ſhall  bee  vpon  all  3s
according
to  this  rule,  awd  vpon  tbe  1/#acl  of  God,
T  here  is  a  dooblc  [ſrael  mentioned
by  Pani,  1/r  ac!
tothe
fleſh,  1,Cor.20.  18,  and  the  //racl  of  Ged  tasthereisa
twofold  lew,
one  ontward,
inthe  fic:  anather  inward,in  theſpirit,  Row.  2.28,
as.  Byche  1/racl  of  God,the  Apoltle  meaneth  all.ſuch  as  ace  liketo  4g
Nathaniel,  who  was  «  tre  1(rachite,  m  +  9s  3719)  IB
1.47.  whetber  they  beethe  faiebfull  Gentiles,or
belecuing  lewes.
And  hee  makes  mention  of  the  l{rael  —
