---
page: 571
pdf_page: 593
sortable_pagination_id: "571"
---
the  Epiſtle
ts  the  Galatians.
Chap.6.
37Þ
the  aduerſaries,  who  bragged  ſo  much  of  their  father  Abraborr.,,
and  that  they  were  the  onely  true  |  ſraclites,  and  yet  were
no  I{rae+
lites,  becauſe  they  troad  not  inthe  lleps  of  the
faith  of  Abrahancw:
ly,tor  the  weake  converts,  who  thought  ita  bard  thing
to  bee
5  leuered  from  theſociety  of  thoſe  to  who  thepromiles  were  made:
partly  for  vs  Gentiles,that  wee  might  know  that  al  are  not  1(racl,
which  ure
of  1ſrael,Rem.9.6,  but  thatali  they  which  are
of  faith  are
bletſed  with  faithfull  Abraham,Gel.3.9,  ſeeing  that  God  ignoac-
i  Peer  of  perſons,
A,  10.  34.
17  From
oorth
let  no  man  put  mee  to  buſineſſe  :  for  1'
beare  in  my  body  the  markes  of  the  Lord  leſus.
Heere  the  Apoſllelaies  downe  his  laſtadmonition,  preyenting
15  an  obiectionthat  mighe  be  made  by  the  falſe  apoltles,  or  the  Gala-
tians,  For  whereasit  might  be  ſaid,that  Paw  fought  bimſelte,and
the  world,ſhunned  perſecution,  and  therefore  ioynedcircumctuon
to  Chrill,to  pleaſe  the  lewes,and  followed
pat  his  owne  rule,ver,
16,  he  takes  away  this  obieion  with  great  authoritie,  when  bee
20  laith,  From  hencefoorth  let  no  man  p12  mee  to  buſme
ſe.  And  withall  he
addes  areaſon  of  it,  for  /  beare  in  my  bodie  the  markes  of  the  Lord  leſus:
as  if  hee  (liould  ſay,  The  bonds,  the  impriſonments,
Yes
wounds,  and  ſcarres  in  my  bodice,  doe  ſuthcieutly  tellit
litie  in  my  miniſtery,  tor  if  1  had  preached  circumciſion,  |
ſhould
25  not  haue  ſuffered  perſecution.
The  words  may  be,and  are  taken  in
adouble  ſenſe.  Firlt  thus,  Thefalfe  apo(lles,and  you  Galatians(by
their  inſtigation)  bave  bin  troubleſome  voto  megby  talſe  accuſati-
ons,and  (landerousimputations,as  that  |
circumciliog
and
the  obſcruation  of  the  ceremonial]
law,  as  a
thing
necellary  to  {al-
uation,an4fo  you  haue  made  a  reuolt  from  my  dgftrige,
and  by
that  meanes  haue  doubled  and  tripled  my  labour
among
you:  But  from  hencefoorth  ceaſe  tobe  t
vatome,you
may  take  experiment  and  proofe  from  me;  the  marks  that  1  beare
in  my  body,  doe  ſuthciently  witnes  and  ſeale  the  truth  of  my  do-
25  Qrine,and  my  fidcliticin  mine  Apalileſhip,as  alſo  whoſe  diſciple  I
am,Ao/es,or  Chriſts,  and  what  rule  |  follow,l  udaiſme,or  Chriſtia:
niſme,  Secondly,they  carie  this  ſenſe,]  hauc  ſaid,thatthey  which
walke  amontingee  this  rule,  in  glorying  pacly  in  the  crolle  of
Chrilt,peace
ſpal  be  yp  thenw,and
mercy,  ind  vpen  the  !ſrar!  of  God,
And
40  |  lay  againe  and  againe,that  moorg  to  (trive
andcontend  for  it,
to  oblcrue  &  keep  it  as  a  thing  mol(tneceſlary
to  ſaluation:
Te  ares,
as  ———
as  ior  other  chings  not  necellarie  to  laluation,
Po
