---
page: 572
pdf_page: 594
sortable_pagination_id: "572"
---
Chap.6.
A  Comment
arie  upon
Lot  naman  tr  onble  mee  in  the  execution
of  mine  Apoſtolicall  fun-
ion,  'of  hinder  thecourſe
of  the  Goſpell,  by  vrgiong  any  other
dotrine  or  ceremony  contrary  or  diverſe  from  this,  as  necellarie
to  ſalvation:  This  onething  is  neceſſary  ,other  things  are  need-
leſſe  and  froiclelſe  in
therefore  neither
1,  nor  the  5
Church  of  God  ought  tobe  troubled  withthem.  T
his  latter  ſenſe
|  rake  to  bee  more
e  to  thetext.  Some  make  the  ſenſe  to
be  this,  1  haue
had  mary  troubles
and  cooflitts  z  and  have many
markes  and  og
in  m  —  ioflied  |
+  por  there.
fore  beno  has  nnd  ome  vato  mee:
it  weretoo  much  to  19
adde  wormewood  to my  gall,  afflition  toaffliftion.  Heere  wee
ſee  the  condition  of  the  Apoltle,  and  the  eſtate  of  all  faichfull
Miaiſters;that
it  isfull  oftroubleand  moleſtations.  For
as  they  are
accounted  men  of  turbulent  ſpiri
cf  the  ate,as  Elia
wat,  1,Kings  2  1.and  RO  15.18.and  Pawl,eAte  16.  x;
20.  and  21.28,  So
troubled  with  faQious
ſers,  and  falſe  teachers  ,  >  1  mee
into  the  Chorch,
chings
needlefſeand  foperfi
part]  bortfll  and
cious.  be  ehe
fl  epottlestroubled  Net  aſtoureand  C
of  Galatia,Ge/ar.5.10,  and  the  Churchesof  Antiochia,Syria,Cili-  ;,
cia,  Aﬀes  15.24.
,  con{ider  how  thatthe
moſt  and
troubles
of
the  C
ofcir-
cumſtance,  partly  notneceſſary
totherule:  which
,partly  contrary
—_—  kBending  hone  bene  veged  with  Gre  and
fagor,  as  things  x5
Lum  Cna  a  edne  Gofeematta
to
circum-
ſtances,andlooketo  cs  A
Amin  es  weudls
Luke  10.41.
necoſai
needlefſe  things,  when  as  one  thipg  onely  is  30
in  theſe  words  ;  For  I  fnavin  Foe
Marra  her
The  word  inthe  original!  tranſlated  marker  ,  doetb  pro
dv.
Vide  Lipfium
ſigaifie  prints  with  a  hoteyron.  But  it  is  here vied  gen
geo
de  militia  Ro-  ſigoifie  any  blemiſh,ſcarre,or  marke  whatſocuer  ,
whether  ſuc
mana,lib.  1,
was  wont  to  bee  ſet  ypon  ſeruants  boughe  with  money  (which  a-
dialogo  9.
mong  the  lewes  wasa  bole  inthe  eare  pearced
with  a  naule,  Exod,
21,6.  Dewt.15.  nance  Cay
——  an  Athenian  captive  the  ligne  of  an  owle:
+  maqy
a  Samian,the  igneofa  ſhipzor
SC
carean
F, in  the  torchead,  a
no
rye
Or
ſoch
