---
page: 573
pdf_page: 595
sortable_pagination_id: "573"
---
the  Epiſtle
ts  the  Galatians,
Chap.6.
373
fuch  a  marke  ,  as  ſome  thinke  wasſet  vpon  Cain,Gen.4.  15,  orthe
marke  of  God,  Ez2h  9.4.  orof  the  bealt,  Apoe,  16.2.
T  he  markes  of  Chritt  aceoftwo  ſorts,cither  in»ard  and  muiſible:
or  ewrwardand  woe.  The  inmiible  marker  are  two.  Theft  ir,
$  Godscternall
leRion,  which  iscalled  Gods  /eale  or  marke2  Tim,
2.19.
The  foundation  of
Godremainith  (ure
and  bath  thu  ſeale;The  Lord
knowerb  who are  bis,  All  the  Ele&  are  marked  with  this  marke,
Apec.7.  and  by  it  Chriſt  knoweth  and  acknowledgeth  ther  for
bus  ſheepe,  Iobn  10.  The  ſecond  is,  regeneration,or  the  imprinti
16  of  the  defaced  image
of  God  inthe
foule.  By  this  marke,  which
is  tbe  true  andeleble  charatter,  never  to  be  blotted
out)  are all  belee-
vers  ſealed,2.Cor.1.22.  £phef.1.13.,  Theſe  inviGble'  markes  of  E-
leftion  and  Regeneration  are  in  the  ſoule,  and  therefore  not  here
meant:  for  beeſpeakes
of  bodily  markes,  /  bears  in  my  bodze  the
15  marker  —,  Theoutward  viliblemarkes  are  twofold:  7ypicall,or
Reall.  Typical,  as  circumcilion,  which  was  a  marke  ſet  in  thefore-
*kioneof
the  fleſh,  Rew.4  11.  T  he  blood  of  the  Paſchall  lambe,
wherewith  the  houſes  of  the  [ſraclites  were  marked,  when  the  firſt
bore
of  the  Egyptians  were  ſlaine  by  the  deſtroying  Angel,  And
20  Baptiſme  is  of  theſame  kind  :  for
by  Baptiſme  Chriſtans  aredi-
_——_—_  from  leves,  Turkes,  [nfhdels  whatfocuer.  Keall  marks:
of  Chriſt,  arecitherio  his  #«taral,  or  in  his  myſticaibedre.  In  bis
netwra/lbodie,the  wounds  which  were  giuen  him  in  his  bands,  feet,
and  ſides,  which  he  ſhewedto  his  Diſciples  after  his  reſurreRion,
2  Tobn  20.27,  which  whether  they  benow  to  be  ſecoe  in  his  glorib-
ed  body  (as  ſome  affirme)  or  aboliſhed  (as  others,)  |  leavetothe
Reader,  as  a  thing
vocertaine,and  meerly  covieurallſecing
there
is  nothing  in  Scripture  either  for  it,or  againlt  it,  that  doeth  neceſ(-
farily  concludeire.  But  of  theſe  markes,  the  Apoltle  ſpeaketh  not
30  iothis  place.  T  he  marksin  his  my##ca/bodie,  are
that,
which  are
in  his  members,  as  wounds,  ſcarres,\vhippings,maimegnelle,  &c.
of  which  we  reade,  2.Cor.  4.10.  Encry  where  wee  beare  im  our  bodie
the  aying  of  our  Lord  [ſus  :  and,2.Cor.  11.2425,  Fine  times  receimed
]  fourte  ſtripes,  ſane  ore:  |  was  thrice  beaten  with  rods,  once  ſtoned,  e&c.
$3  And  theſe  the  Apoſtle  heere  calleth  tbe  marker
of  Chr,  becaule
35
they  are  infli  ed:  for  the  profeſſion  of  Chriſt,  and  the  Gotpel:  as
the  wounds  and  ſcarres  of  2  ſouldier,
may  bee  called  his  Princes
woundGs  2nd  (carrcs,  becauſe  they  are  had  1n  his  cauſeand  quarrel],
Now  thoſe  in  bis  natura!l  body  differ  from  theſe1n  bis  my  llicall  :
4  Firſt,  io  that  they  are  meritorious,tor  by  bus  ſtripes  wee  are  bealed,1,
Pet.  2.24.  Theſs  in  his  my  (licall  bodie,are  glorious  in  the  light  of
God(as  thedeath  vi  his  Saints  is;)  yet  nog  meritorious,  Secondly,
thoſe.
