---
page: 552
pdf_page: 574
---
open  '   \
A  Comineutarie
Chap.
J352
-  lo  theſe  words  Pal  cones  To  the  Reddition  of  the  diflimilitide
betwixt  him  and  che  falſe  Apoltles;his  glorying
and  their,  In  them
we  may-coolider  two  yenerall  points.  Firſt,  wherein  hee  would
not-glory  wnothoug,  ſavein,  bc.  Secondly,  therhipg  whereia
he
would  glotyy  I  Vh+tvofſe  of  Chriſt,  whereof
ht  renders  a  reafol  x
in  the  words  following,  taken
from  the  effeRs'  which  the  crofſe
wry  in  him,For,by  «1
zthe  world  was  eyweified  ro  him,
mud  bee  wat
the  world.
FOG
Sn
For  the  firſt  :  Toglaye,  implies
three  thinge.-  Fielt;  to  reioyee,
exole,and  triumph  in-z  maneſelfe.  it  regard  df  Bine  good  thing,  of  16
ſome  ſpppoſed
good.
thisþreat  cxulration,
porn  nom  aeer
both.
by
dave
praiſe
and  applauſe  of  men  ;
tothe  'n4-
ture  of  the  obieR,and
the  etid)  iseither  goo
of  Ill.  For  if  it
have
a  Sp  gtivergg'}  1
of  Ghri7t  and  «  rightiend,cbe
glerie  t  5
of
Godt
iv  good  zotherwiſe
it  ivevill  ;
ſueb  ear
lor  of
the  falſe  ApolHes,ond  aletorvmmgiy  Jae
rb  wootinthe
Jaime
Icr.g.2
3+
knew
things,let  him  reade  the  booke  of  /;
#8-20d  1  7and48  Hnd
as  for  wiſedgme
ja  divine  thi
Wee  know  nothing  as  wee  ewgnt  to
Liew;"Cor.8.3)
be  Sork  ves
|  ROO  07
darkely.a.Conag
tz.  And  as  for  profticall  wiledome,  (landiogiin  4
pallicie,it  is  not  demonltrative,
but
meerely  conieAuraſhand  ther
tore  wecannoc  build  vpon  it,conliderivg  in  it  there  is  the  concur-
rence
