---
page: 575
pdf_page: 597
sortable_pagination_id: "575"
---
the  Epiſtle  to
the  Galatians,
Chap.6.
375
markes  which  they  make  in  their  feſh,by  whippiog  of  themlelues.
For  firlt,it  is  not  the  puniſhmec(as  {yprien  faith  )but  thecauſe  that
makes  a  Martyr.  Secondly,the  markes  which  men  ſetvpon  them-
{elues  contrary  to  the  Law,  Lenit.19.2$.  arc  not  the  marker  of  the
5  Lord  leſus  :  but  thoſe  onely  which  are  ſet  vpon  them  by  others,  for
the  prote(ſion  of  thetruth.  Thirdly,this  whipping  and  afflictiog  of
themſclues,  being  but  will-worſhip,io  not  (paring  ofthe  body,
v.
2.23.is  no  better  accepted  of  God,  then  the  {uperititious  practiſe  of
B  zals  prielts,launcing  themſelues  with  kniucs,till  the  blood  guſh-
19  <d  out.  :.Kmgs  18  28,
Againeyt  this  be  the  glorieof  a  ſeruant  of  Chriſt,  anda  note  of
conſtant  profeſlion,what  hall  we  (ay  of  them  who  baye  got  onely
their  conſciencesſeared  with  a  hot  yron,but  by  drinking,whoring,
rioting,  6&c.get  the  markes  of  Bacchus  and  Yenws  in  their  bodies  ?
1;  For  it  theſe  be  the  markes  of  Chriſt,  thoſe  mult  ocedes  bee  the
markes  of  S4rav,
Laitly,  heacewe  are  taught  a  (peciall  dutie,and  that  is,to  ſuffer
bodily  affiRionin  the  protellion  of  the  cruth  :  and  though  bonds
and  impriſonment  abide  vs  io  all  places,not  to  paile  for  them,  ſo
16  that  we  may  fulfill  our  courſe  withioy,  according  to  Perl  exam-
plezboth  here,and  42.20.24  azallvin  hiscommandement  to  7i-
mothie  Suffer  affiiitron  a5  a  good  ſonldter  of  leſws  Chriſt.2.,Tim.2.3.T  he
reaſons  are  theſe.  Firlt,
by  ſufferiog  bodily  afli  tion,  wee  are  made
conformable  vtno  Chrilt,  and  fulfil  the  reſt  of  the  afflitions  of
25  Chriſtin  our  fleſh.  Co/.1.24.Secondly,they  teach  vs  to  have  aſym-
pathie  &  fellow  feeling  ofthe  miſeriesof  our  brethren,  to  remem-
ber  thoſe  that  arein  bonds,asthogh  we  were  bound  with  them,&
thoſe  that  are  in  afflition,as  though  we  alſo  were  afflifted  in  the
body.Heb,13.3.  Thirdly,our  patient  enduring  of  affliction,doth
»  not  onely  ſerueas  a  preſident  &  example  to  others  to  ſuffer  patict-
ly,but  allo  is  a  notable  meansto  confirme  them  iothetruth.2.Cor.
1.6.  Philip.1.14;  Laltly,they  ſerueto  ſcoure  vs  thatare  earthly  vel.
ſels,from
the  ruſt  &  filth  of  1io,that  cleaves  ſo  falt  vnto  our  nature,
18,  Brethrenthe  grace  of  our  Lord  1eſus  Chriſt,be  with  your
35  ſpirit,  Amen.
Here,  the  Apoſtle  concludes  his  Epiſtle  with  his  vivall  farewell,
commending  the  Galatians  to  the  grace  of  God,and  wiſhing  voto
th  afl  things  dppertaining  to  /pirituall  life  &  godlines.1Per.1,3.which
T  here  is  a  two-fold  grace  mentionedin
40  heſignifieth  here  by  grace.
which  makes  a  man  gracious  or  acceptable  to
Scripture,  Grace
is;  freely.  gigen,  gret14
Qodiriit  gratam  ſacien;  :  and  yoo!  which
£rees
"7
