---
page: 556
pdf_page: 578
---
Chaps.
A  Commentarie  pon
556
iocenle  to  their  owneyearne,  Heb\:c.1.  16,or  in  boaſting  of  them
without  —_—  cauſe,  either  for  their  owne  vaine  glory,as  Ne.
buchodeweſor
did,Dan.4,or  not for  Gods  glory
,as  Herod  did,  AF.  1  2,
And  ifthis  glorying  beſo  great  a  (ione,  ſurely  boalting  io  wicked.
neffe(srDoce.did,Pal.52.  1.  )wult  needes  be  molt  dam  nable  :  as  5
when  the  greatelt  (wearers  and  (waggerers,  count  themſelues  the
beſt
companions:  The  greatel?  |dolaters,and  ſuperſtitious  perſons,
mo
jous
:  the  greateſt  oppre(ſours,furfaters,druokards,figh.
ters,n
aliano  ng  ve
Ee  omy  bedone  nes
waies,cither
ipnorancly;zs  when  7Ps/gloried
in  his  cruel!
ro
NE  ek
Panly
ting  of  the
his  converſion,  AF.26.  i  1.  or
ptu-
,when
men
in  wickedoeſſe,  notwith(lanving  they  bee
men
ſed
in  copici  A
SIGEGOd  als  the  lione  of
Sodoame,1fa.z.9.0r  maliciovſly,  todeipite  God,  andthen
it  is  the
ſioneagainftrbeholy  Ghoſt,
Too
To
b]
The  ſecond
point
to be  conſidered
jn  the  words,  is,  thethiog
wherein  be  oe eu  Boom  here  the  Croſſe
of  Chriſt  :  Sawe
m  the
Croſſe  of  our
Teſs  Chriſt.  The  wordsinthe  originzll  traoflared
ſave,are  exceptiue:
asif  he  ſhould  ſay,l  will  glory  in  nothing  exce
.  in  the  crotfe
of  Chriſt:  andexclulive,
onely  inthe  crotle  o  Chrilty  i
and  in  nothiog
els.  Albeit  they  are  ſorvetimeadueriative,  25  G-/.2.
16.and  Apor,2  11  7.7beve  ſhall  enter  mio  ir  no  ncleane  thing  ii  pad,  but
they  that  are  written,
fc,  where  the  words  are  not  exclutiue':  for
'  then  it  would  follow  that  ſome  which  worke  abhoumipation,ſhovld
enter  into  heaven  :  )but  aduerſative  as  ach  12.4.2a0d  Lake  4  10.  35
which
by  the
clearecthe  text,  /ob.17.12.  Theſe
thou
bawe
I  kept,  and  none  of  them  us  loſt;but  the  child
of  perds-
tion;  that  is,but  the  child  of  perdition  is  loſt,  Forthe  words,  i3  jt  (as  1
(3  jb  ©  3eve  The
6  Feta,
take  it)arenut
ſo  well  trabſlated  by  the  exceptive  coniundion  »/,
aduerfativeſed:  ſeeing  beere  is  no  exception  made
of  /a-  39
had  beene  givento  Chrilt,  and  afterward
bad  fal-
'\nceds  be'made,  ifthe  words  be
_  the  Croſſe  of  Chrift  ,  the  Apoſtle  vnderftandeth
ſpnecdochically,
the  all-ſofficient,,  expiatorie,  and
ſatisfaQorieſa-  ;  5
crifice  of
Qhriſt
vpon  theervile  ;  with  the  whole  worke  of  our  re-
demptioo  «  in  the  ſauing  knowledge  whereof  he  profetleth  he  will
glorie,  and  boalt,  For  Chriſt  «  made  vnto  vs  wiſedeme  ,
right  conſneſſe
«.Cor.1.z1.
——that  dit  is
written,  Hethat  glorieth,  ſhould  glorie  mtbe
Lord:  even
21.
to  make  boaſt  of  him  all  the  day  lang  ,
as  the  Plalmilt  ſpeaketh.”
40
Andthereafon  why  Par  profeſſeth  that  he  will  glorie  onely  inthe
Croſleet  Chrithis,-  becauſe  Chiilt  crucitied  is  the  treafurie  A  and
ore-
