---
page: 58
pdf_page: 80
sortable_pagination_id: "58"
---
Chap.2.
|  A  Contimenterie  101
we  are  mooued  to-belecueand
obey  ,)is  io  the  word,  and  from
word,  andnotfromthe  Church.  Fort
bis  eui-
g-
The  third  point  is,  concerning
with  whome  Pasl  5
conferred:  namely,wiebebew  that  were  the  chiefe,that  is  with  them
andacocount,  asPerer,  eames,  &c..  Here
we  (ee,
what  is  the  honour  and  worſhipperbat
is  due  vnto  excellent
meu  ,
namely  ,  a  pretious  and  reuerend  eſtimation.  Thus  the  name  of
Daxid  was  in
{acl  for  bis  vertucs.  1.S<w.28.  aft.  And  14
thus  with  the  Papiſts,  are  wee  content  to  honour  the  Saints.
gr  rue
berethe  gs  that  they  are  beretricks,that
eprom  toPeamn,  and  bis
——————..
ed
anode  cr  4  rrp
religioa  tried  and  exami-
ned.}  aofwee
firſt,  we  are  content  heciatipcks  |
——__  is
Peter,  Lames,  Tobn,  Pawly&c.  Andthis
is  the  commandement
CE
Eng
ly,  !  anfwer,
that  webaue  a  commandemenc,  noe  to  goe  vpto
ptried.  Rexcl.18,  Comment  of
Babylon  my
Thirdly,  1  anſwer,  that  the  Biſhop  of  Rome  is  29
Peters
ia  ceaching,  ————__  Chrilt.And  the
learned  Papifts  confele;tharfor  this
n,they  have  buts
humane  faith
vpon  bumaine  hiſtorie.
The  fourth
point  ie,  the  Ende  ofthe  conference,  Leeft  /
fonld
rwze,  that  is,  leaſt  _
Or  15
words  ye  ans
ply
to  be  taken.  F
ove  wh
Ke  Gr  hc
As  COU
"YE
TEIN
TORS;
"_y-
life
:  _  our  of
des;  IE  mn  free
carrie
thr  meaving:  Lealt
ſhoala  heofleſſe  ve,  and  oy
Ps  gps  wer  ſtay  this
|  m—_—
the  ——  a.
paſſageand  that  with  greater
profit,
Hence  the  Papiſts  gather,  thatthe  doGrine'of  Pas!  wasvncer-  40
ten,  andvyprofitable,till  it  was  approoued  by  Peter.]  anſwer,that
Pas  ſougbtthe  approbation  of  his  doaring  at  the  hands
of  Petey,
aud
