---
page: 558
pdf_page: 580
---
arie  pou
Comment
558  Chap-6.
death,our  life.
,  to  ſhew  that  he  was  pot  aſhamed  ofthe
croile  of  Chriſt,
never  ſo
inious
io  the  eyes  of  the
world.  [t  had  beene  no  great  thiog
for
Peaw/to  have
in  the
reſfurreQion,aſceoſion,
wi
er,  and  maieltie
of  Chriſt,
wherein  the  world  can and  doth  glory.  But  to
in  the  ſhame.  5
the  crol
Two
God,  1.Cor.1.2  4.
The  Popiſh  ſort  abuſe  this  text  two  waies.  Firſt,  in
it  to
the  rranſiext  croſſe.Secondly,to
or  material
the
croſſe,  To
the  tranſient  croſſe,  in  that  they
in  it  :  Firſt,as
a  vertue
ode  panes  wa  Otnten  7  th  ga
beeing  made  in  the  forehead  to  be  as  an  amoulet
again(t  charmes,  ,,
,  and  other  ſuch  like  caſualties.  To  the  muarerial
bla
coſe,
ben  they  adorne
it  with  a  and  ſocauſcit
to
che  Crwcigers
carried
them.Whe
in  great
weare  itin
pompe
greenecolour.  When  they
theirbats  in  aw
put  their
confidence  init,and  pray  voto  it,  Holy  Creſſeave  vs.T  bisis  Popiſh.zg
be  00
pe  5  es  os  inthe  death
prior
rad  0  of  which  ooely  the  Apoſtle  ſpeakes  in
Thereaſon
why  be  would
in  nothing
but  in  theeroſe  of  _
Chriſt,  followeth  tobe
,  in  theſe  words,  By  which
tbe  35
world
is  crucified
towe,and  [mo  the  world,  [tis  taken  from  a  double
effe&,  which  Chrill,or  the  croſſe  of  Chrilt,  wrought  iri  him  t  (tor
the  words,#i
7, by  which,  may
be  referred  to  either  indiferently.)
The  firlt,yo
be  crucified  ro  vbe  world  :  the  ſecood,rhe
world  to  be  orneifi-
ed  to  bums.  By  the  wor  [d,we  arent  to  vnderſtand  the  frame  ofheaven  jo
and  earth,  -nor  the  creatures,  nor  mankind
:  but  honour,  riches,
my  yrs  en  and  whatſoever
is
to
of
Chriſt,and
rhenew  creature.  7s  be
crucrfed
to  the
world,is
to  bedead  vnto  it,to  defpiſeand  contemaeit,to  count  all
the  glorie  of  it  tobe  no  better  then
RotChriſt  and  35
his  righteouſpelle,as  Paw/did,P6\:i/.3.8.T
is  ſaid  ro  be  cr8-
cfied  ro;  when  it  hates
vs,and  accounts  vsthe  filth
and  the  off-ſcouring
of  all
t,Cor.4.1;\:Yethereobſerue  that
tockigworld,  and  the  worldro  vs,  by  thevertueof
thedeath  of  Chriltafter  adifferentmanner.We  arecrucifiedtothe
weaning
our  affeions
from
the  love  ot  this  world,
Mizcrocibedtove,  by  the  _
