---
page: 559
pdf_page: 581
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
Chaps,
$59
of  Chriſt,  Improperly,and  by  accideot,in
that  we  aremade  fach
asthe  world  cannotbut  _
'  oat  parks
new  creatures,
and  choſen  out  of  the  world,  therefore  theworld
hateth  vs,  [obu  15.15.
Heereweſcewhothoſcarethatcantruly  glorie  io  thecrolle  of
Chrilt,namely  thoſe  that  are  dead  tothe  world,  and  the  world  to
them  :  nega
aide  LSTING  crucifyiog
the
fleſh  intbem,  with  the  affe  ions  and  luſts.  Others  can  no  mare
lory  of  thecroſle  of  Chriſt,  then  be  that  glories  ofthe  viorie
19  which  his  Prigce  hath  gotten  overhis  enemies,  bimſclfe  in  the
meane  timedecing  a  vailalland  ſlave  vato  them,
Secondly  ,that  it  is  not  ſuthcient
for  a
Cheiſtian,  thatthe  world
is
crucified  to  him,except  bealfo
be  crucified  tothe  world,  neither
loving
the  world  porthe  things
io  the  world.
|;
15S
Thirdly,that  to  be  crucified  tothe  world,is  not  to  profeſſemo.-
naſticall  life,agd  co  be  ſhut  vp  in  a  Monaſtery\:but  to  renounce  the
world,  and  thecorruptions
that  are  therein,  bothin  affection  of
bart,and  praciife  of  lite.
20
Fourthly,weare  taught  tocarry  onrſelues  tothe  world,  as  cru-
cified  aud  Jead  men,not  toloue  nor  like  it,to  ſeekeor  affeR  it,but
torenounce  &  forlake  it,with  al  the  vanities,  Celights,G&  pleaſures
thereof\:and  to  beas  dead  men  to  our  owne  wicked  willes,  and  to
2.5  Our  carnall  reaſon,
leting
them  liedeadio  vs,8  ſuffering  ourſelues
to  beruled,ordered,  and  guided  by  the  Spirit  of  God\:making  his
will  our  will,his  word  our  wiſedome.
Fiftly,  by  this  wemay  examine
our  hearts,  for  ifwe  have  our
affections  jved  to  the  world,andietypon  the  honors,  pleaſures,
,  profits,and  preferments  thereof,we  are  worldlingsindeed\:for  they
30  that  are  Chrills  arecrucified  with  Chrift,G4/  2.20.  and  bavecru-
cifiedthe  fleſh  ,  with  theatfe  tions  and  lults.C-1.5.24.  and  therfore
mult  needs  be  crucified  to  the  world.  A
manthatis  banged  vpon  a
bbet,  ceaſeth
from  his  thefts  avd  murders:  So  all  that
are in-
T  Þedervcifed  with  Chrilt  co  the  world,;ceale  from  their
old  offen-
ces,  For  asthe  Apoltle  reaſoneth,  if  we  beriſeq  with  Chrilt,  wee
avght  toſceke  therthiogs  that  areaboue,  and  not  the  thingsthat
.  arevponthe  carth,  Col.3.1,  2.  Soif
we  bedead  with  Chrilt  from
the  vanities  of  the  warld,  we  ought  as  dead  men  toabllaine  from
all  worldly  laſts,  which  fighc  again(t  the  ſoale.  1,Per,2.11.
40
wv.  15.  For  in  Chriſt  1eſus  neither  circumciſion  auaileth  4-
#)  thing  ,  nor  oncircumciſion,  but  4  new  creature.
Oe
Here
