---
page: 560
pdf_page: 582
---
/  $60:  Chap.6.
A  Commentarie  ou
Herethe  Apoſtle  prooues  his  former  aflertion,  v.14.  that  te
neither  did;  nor  ought  to  glory  in  any  thing,  ſaueino  the  crotle  of
Chrilt,
becauſe  nothing  isof.  any  account  in
the  kingdome  of
God,  but  a  new  creature,  Andthis
he  prooues  by  the  remoouall
ofall  thoſe  things,  that  aregither  oppolite  to,  or  divers  from  a  g
pew  creature,{ignihed  by  crreanecoſion  and  wemrenmaſin,
And  with-
all
he  laies  downe  two  concluſions,
The  firſt
is,  that»  Chriſt
Teſus,that  is,in  the  kingdome  of  grace,  neither  ciremmerfion,  nor  vn-
circumciſion  are  ders  rs  is,  are  neither  acceptable  to  God,  nor
availcable
to  ſaluatio  :  Vnder  theſe  two  ſynecdochically  coprebe-  16
divg
all  outward
priviledges,  and  prerogatives,  digpities,  and re-
galities,  or  w
can  be  named  :  vnder  crcame:  ſion  compri-
ling  the  prebeminence  of  the  lewe,and
the  profit  of  circumcilion,
which  was  much  every  way,  Row.3.1.  ſceivg  that  rorhem  appertai-
ned  the  adoption,
and  the  glory,  and  the  conenants,  and  the  grumy  of  the  15.
Lame,  andthe  ſermce  of  God,  and  the  promiſes.  Rom,  9.4.  Vader
vucir-
cumcuſion  cyotaining  the  Gentiles,  with  alltheir  wealrh,wiſdome,
{tr=ogth,  Lawespollicy,  and  whatſocuer  is  of  high  account,  and
glorious  in  thecics
of  the  world,
All  which  he  excludes  and  ac-
counts  as  nothing  in  reſpec  of  regeneration,  For  that  which  is  bigb-  29.
ly  accounted  of
men,  is  ahounwationinthe
ſight  of
God.  Luk,  16.
15.  Therefore
witedome,  wealth,  pobility,flrength,  are  nothing.
1.  Cor.1.26,
Outwardcallioge,asto  be  King  or  K2/er,  Prophet
or  Apolile.  Outward  ations  of  logeanee  gory  Nay,  kindred
and  ailiavce,as'to  be  mother
or  brotherof  Chriſt,is  nothiog  :  for  25.
1  the  bletled  virgioe  bad  not  borne  Chriſt  in  ber  beart,  as  ſhee
did1n  her  wombe;,  ſhe  ſhould  never  bave  becneſaued.  Lok,  11,27,
.  28.  andifhis  kipſmen  had  not  beene  his  brethren  by  ſpirituall  a-
doption,asmell  as  by  naturall
on,  they  ſhould  baue  bad
-—
no  inheritance  inthe  erty.  God,  Hark.  3.33.  34.  Nay  30:
the  outward  element  of  baptiſme,  without  the  inward  grace,  is0
no  force;  for  it  is»ot  the  waſhing  away  of  the  filth  of  the  fiſs  (that  is
acceptable  ru'God)bnt  the  fripslation  of  a  geod  conſeienceywbich  maketh
requeſts  n's  Ged.
1.Pet.z3.21,
Apdit  the  communicant  at  the
Lords  table,  doe  not  eateprnem  Domingm
as  wellas  paves  (een  35.
(as  A»,nſime  [peaketh)that  ir,  i!  hedoe  got  receive  Chrilt  ſpirity-
ally  by  thc  hand  of  bis  taith,  ,as  be  doth  corporally  receivetbee-
Temeut  by  his  bochly  handyhe  recervet  b
vawortbily,  and  ſocateth  and
dr  in  k-th  bis  awne  indgement,  2,Cor.  11.29.  Now  the  reaſon  why  theſe
outward  things  arenothing  availeable,is,  becauſe  the  things  that  49
«rc  accounted  of  with  Gad,are  fpirituall  and  eternall,  pot  tempo-
rall  and  ca\:nall,  as  theſe  are:  which  as  they  (hall  viterly  ceaſe
in  tbe
kipgdome
