---
page: 583
pdf_page: 605
sortable_pagination_id: "583"
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galitions,
Chap.6.
rene  yr
of  the  holy  Gholl  Guppoqutrerily  it  is  doubted
ſome,
alomen,  w
penned
bookes,whether
he  were  clefted  or  reieted;whereas  it  is  not  doubted  of  thereſt:)
but  only  (as  1  haue  already  faid)to  put  a  note  of  diftinRion  betwixt
:5  them  and  other  books,innamiog  otthemas  *Hago  de  S.Yi&hath  Sfingnantur
well  obſerued.  +  -
Inchisſenfechis  title  Canonicall;may  be  ginen  to  theſe  Epiſtles
without  danger:  butif  wee  ſhall  vader(iand  tin
any  other  ſenſe,
we  fhallbe  ſofarre  from  being  able  todefendir;that  we  ſhalnor  be
10  ableto  excuſeit.
The  lecond  title  which  is  giventhem;is,that  they  be  called  «-
thetike,  which  ioſcription  isas  vnhit  as  the  former  :  tor  they  are  fo
calicd  (asſome  would  have  it,  Ybecaule  they  were  written,  and  di.
rected  tothe  whole  Catbolike  Churchi,  confilting  both
of  Lewes,
15  and  Gentiles,  Bucthat  is  nottruc,feting/emes,chap.  1:  1.direReth
his  Epiltle
only  tothe  1
2.  tribes  that  weredifperſed,and  not  tothe
Gentiles:
And  PAor  who  was  anApollle  of  circumciGon;r;Epilt:
1.x;  wrigeth  onely  to  the  [trangers  the  lewes,  that  dwelt  hereand
there  Om
Pontus,Galatia;Cappadocia,Alia,  &  Bythinia.
$6  Qthersthinke
they  are  tcarmed  Carbobe,  for  that  they  werenor
fant  to  08e  man,  or  family,  or  citie,orcountrey  :  but  generally  to
the  whole  bodie;companyor
ſocietic  of  the  tewes,  whereſocuer
diſperſitd
ouer  the  whole  eareb;  But  nother  inchis  ſenſe  cap  they
buly,of  truely  bettrerned  Cababke:  forafmuch  as  twank  theſe  ſc-
25  vent  the  (econd  andibird
of  Zebn,  were  written  to  particular
perſonsthe
one  totheelet\:Lagy.theotherto  Gaim.  And  by  this
reaſon  theEpililetoTrmubee.that-to  7a,  and  P  brlemyon,  may  beo
gent  eee}  bey  were  alldireAcd
toallthe
1n,bei
that
they
were
to
ewes,
46  yet]  omit  Co  eEpilile  tothe  Ebrewes  may  not  as  well  chal-
Logathia  title  to  becalled
Catbolike,asany  of  theſe  ſenen;conlide-
ring  it  wag  written  (aallthelewesand
only  tothe  lewer.
bicdly,oubere  aftionecbem  to
beccalled  Cathelikg,  beeaule  they
confaine  Catholike  doftrine,fuch  as  appertaineth
to  all  men  ge-
25  verally,of  w  bat  eltate,place,condition,
or  calling  ſocuer  they  bec.
But  inthis  ſenſeall  Par  EpilHes,  may  be  called  Catbehtks  Epiſtles.
For  whatſoener  is
wruten,is  written  for  our  (earning  that
we  through  pati-
ence  and  uſolation  of  the  S  croptmres
nweg  bt  bane  boge,  Rom.  1.5.4.
Us
Secondly
the  word  Catbolrky
is  not  io  ancient:  tor  Pacienus  an  are
Piblhicth,  ſacrt
4  ent  Father  ſpith.at
wasnor  vied  inthe  Apoliles  daies.'  His  words  00G
atholicus  vocabatur  \:eftvofic  fre-
ace  theſe.  Sed  ſub  apoftoliu(inqmes)nems  (
ritzuel  illud  mdulge
Fs  poſt  apeſtolos  hereſes  ext:ſet  dinerſiig,  _
Colunmbans
