---
page: 566
pdf_page: 588
---
556
Chap.6.
A  Commentarie
pon
be  new  creatures,why  leade  we  not  a  newlife?if  we  be  chavgedin
arewenotchangedin  converſation?
But  by  this  wee may
perceive
thar  all  which  are  Chriſtians  in
profeſſion,  are  not
Chriſtians
in  cooverſation  :  all  that  are  waſhed
with  the  outwardelement  ofwater,arenot  waſhed
with  the  inward  's
ba
the  lauer  of
tion
:  as  firlt,  thoſe  that  are  as  good
fellowes(that
is,as  badde)as  euer  they:  were  before,  and  make  oo
conſcience  of  imne.Secondly,ſuch  avareno  more  but  civill  bone(t
men,  likerhoſe  honeſt  women  which  rayſcd  perſecution  againt
Paxland  Barnabas,  and  expelled
them  out  of  their  coaſts.
A2.  1  3,  re
50..  T  hirdly,worldly
wiſe  men  which  ſavour  of  nothing.
but  the
world.  Laſtly,ſuch.as
have  ſome  love  sndliking  of  the  word,  and
are
in  ſome  ſorr  outwardly  conformablethereunto,  having  ſome
legall  ſorrow  for  linne  ariling  from  legallicrrours  :  but  baue  no
tborow  cbange  nor  renovation,
ig
Laftly,we
may  not  maruell  if  the  world  bate  and  maligne
thoſe
that  are new  creatures  :  ſeeing  they  peitber  mind  nor  affeR
the
ſameth
For  there
can  be  no  true  love, where  there  is  contra-
rictie  of
ivdgements,wills,  atieQions,which  hath  bene,is,and
will
bee  betwixt  thoſe  that  are  borneot
the  fleſh,  and  thoſe
that  are  26
bone
of  God,Gene.3.15..
peace  ſball
16  And  as  many  as  walkt  according
to  this  rule,
be  pon  them  and  mercy,  and  yon  the  Iſrael  of
God.
is
Heere  Paz/  commends
this  glorying  inthe  croiſe  of  Chriſl,and
ſtudie
of  pietie,  in  becomming  #  new  creature,  as  the  oncy
rule
anne,  aud  follow”  Eckreing  abe
keging  and
edfemiog  of
Soubindutiney  che  boicand  evoke  ther  omeachereky  Fol  56
beere  by
werey.  In  the  words  twothings  aregenerallyto
be  conli
InNg,in
theſe  words,  As  aver
_  yo
wake,  voor  licoply.co  walke  ,  —_
Y  Kip  A,
e  warily
andcircumſpetly  (as  it is
expounded,  Zpkeſ.  5.15
or  to  walke  by  rule  in  order,and  meaſure;  withoyrtreading
zlide  42.
bat  making  (haighe
to  our  feete,  Hebrewer  12.43.  Paris
rule  which  we  muſt
»  is  faithia  Chrilt,  called  hcre  glory-
