---
page: 37
pdf_page: 59
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
.Chap.1.
47
ning
of  Dav#that  great  Propbetr.  For  this  ticle  he  giuesto  the  3
2,
Plalme,  The  vodesſtanding
of  Darid.  Laftly;allmen  are  in
chis
reall  manner  with  P  a«/  to  learne  the  ſame.For  be  is  an  example  to
all  that  ſhall  bedecvein  him  to  life  everlaſtiog,  r.7im,1.12.  Pan!
$5  biddes  vs  doe  the  goodthings  which  we  haue  fcencin  bim,P  bilip,
5.9  Haewvpe.
pf
The  third  point  is  the  end  of  Paul  converſion,  in  theſe  words
that  he  might  preach  him  among  the
gentiles.]  Here  |  conſider.
what
he  mult  preach,  namely  the
Sonne  Chril  :  and  ro  whom  2:
10  namely  a
the  nations.  Againe  of  the  preaching  of  Chriſt,  I
con(i  ew  things  \:thefir(t  ky  Chriſt  muſt  be  preached  22-'
ther  then
Moſes  ?  Anbwer,
there  be  two  cauſes.”  One  is,  becauſe
ns.  —  _  ww.  wad  ———  Forthe
ume  of
the  Scriptures
may
bet
\:T  he  Son
25  of  God  made  man,andworking  our  aempeion,athe  Saviour  of
mankind  :  but  /eſa-
the  Sonne
of  Aſarieisthe  Sonne  of  God,made
man,workiog
our
ion
:  therefore  /eſn1the  Sonneof  Aaris
isthe  Saviourof  mankind.
T  be  maioris  theſammeofthe  old  Te-
Nament:  the  minor
is  the  fumme
of  the  new  :  and  the  conclu(ioa
22  is  tbe  ſcope
of  both.
T  heſecond  cauleis.  *  The  law  is  the  miniſtery
af  death;
and  the  Goſpell  (which  isthe  doctrive  of  faluation
by:
the  Sonne)  is  the  in{lrumentof  God  to-heginne
awd  to  confirme-
all  graces  of  Godin  vs  that  are  nece(lary  to  gurſaluation;  There-
pms
AA  be  preached  is  the  Goſpell,  and.
25  not
w,
Secondly  it  may  be  demaunded,  what  it  is  to  preach  Chrilt  ?
Anſwer  t  itis  a  great  worke,and  it  containesfoureminiſteriall
aRi-
ons.
T  hefirſt,generally
co  teach  the  dotrineof  the  incarnation  of
Chriſt,
and  othis  three  ofhces,  bis  Kingly  office;his  Propheticall
30  office,and  his  Prieſthood  with  the  execotion  thereof.  The  ſecond,
to  teach
that  faith  is  an  inſtroment  ordained  of  God  to  apprehend
andt
Chriſt  with  his  benefits.  The  third  is,tocertifie  and
to
to
hearer;that  itis  the  will  of  God  toſauchim  by
Chriſtin:  centceles  ſobe  it  be  will  receive  Chriſt,  Forwhen  the
35  Goſpell  is  preached,\
30d  thereby  (ignifes  voto  vs,  thathis  willis
to  gige  vs  life  everlaſting,
1.70h.5.18.-The  laſtis  to  certifie  and  to
reveale  to  every
particular  hearer,  that  heis  toapply  Chriſt  with
his  benehts  to  himſelfe
in  particu/ar,  and  that  ettecually  by  bis
faithythat  a  change  and  converſion  may  follow  both  in  heart  and
44  life,  1./0b.3.23.And  thus  when  theſe  things  are  rightly  performed,  -
Chriſt  is  preached,  Henceit  appearesthat  tol\:arne  Chriſt,  js  not
ovely  to  know  him  generally,  bat  allo  cttectvally  to  apply  him  to
our
