---
page: 591
pdf_page: 613
sortable_pagination_id: "591"
---
A  THBLZE
1236
What  2  man  muſt  doe  to  be  qqpyins_  2
How
they
oh  old
reſlmene  war  poker
childe  ?
243.40
What  the  vnion  with  Chriſt  is?vid.Vnion.
why
and  blood  of  Chritt  ?  6
40
In  what  reſpe&  they  are  ſaid
to  bee  one  with
Claitnt  great  Propher  and  d>Aour  0  _
Chriſt  ?
2  —_
i  belecuers  are  made  one  with
Chien:
office  ſtandsin  three  things.
_  F
ChriBenicluchcheſtrhabardco  betgichert,ued
Of  the  donation  of  Chriſt,
433-5
Of  our  receiving  of  Chriſt,
223.46
Whae  a  Chriſtian  i  is.
K  i
A  Chriſtian  is  Chriſts,  five  waies,
ithid  1g
What  communion  with  _—_  is?
237-33
Tee  vics  of  one  beeing  C  _
wr
How
the  Lord  leſus
is
224-11
Of  che
©  yp
Cheſt.  vid.  Approbes-
The  office
of  a
Chri
The  Churchof  Rome  anech  efcel  bn
8.21
Why
hy
Cheiſ  called  Sonne?  v1;d,  Sonne.
How  the  Church  can  bee  waſted  ,  and  why  the
Lord  ſuffers  ir  ro  be  ſo?
;8.9.&  14
Whether  the  Sonne  of  God  ?  vid.  Sonne.
ene,  332.7
Chriſt  cooke  not  to  himdelte
the  office  of  a  Me-
Vnitie  ts  not  an  infallible  and  inſeparable  marke
diatour
247-15
Atreatiſe  of  Chriſts  incarnatien,why,how  farre
of  the  church.
359-27
Three  certen  markes
of  the  Catholike  church,
forth,and  how  he  was  made  flelh?
247-41
Of  the  vniting  of  the  Heſly  to  the  godhead  of
Whyale  Chriſtian  church
is-  called  barren  and
the  Sona...
449-49
Of  Chriſts  ſubieRion  to  the  law,
ECTITL
214.29.&  28
LACS
delolate
OfChrife  obedicae  in  fling  lo  251
Theelte
ofthe  church  is  uber
inward  or
our-
Of  the  application  of  Chriſt.  vide  Appli
Thevſec  ha  oughtto  be  mide  hat  the  K  hu
hath  Chit
husband.
i6.29/
Chriſt  crucified,  the  Rorchoule
and  we  we
The
Catholie  charchon  earth  faid  to-beein
—_—  whack  is  ſhewed  in  hue  points!
0+  +,
gaga®/
Ofthe  =
pukry
Paul  glriedraer
rather  in  che  crolle  of  Chriſt
$97.86
It  one  in  gumberzand
no  ore
reſurrection  ?
Wh  Pal
The  Pots  wicked  glorying
in  the
How  the  chazch  is  troubled  ?  ok  Trnbn*
The  catholike  church  why  called  our  micher)
(8.11
Chills  calledour  Lond
un  ue
reſp,  $76:
.  viewer  mather  into  bs  found.  .
|  Ws
Chun  was  made  a  curſe  for  vavile  urls,"
The  order  to  be  vied  in  the  cendure  gran
How  Chriſt  ſuffered  the  wrath  of  God  ?  194-1
achurch.
lemlalem  the
mother  charchraherthen  Rome,
taught,
"x
Wie?  Ghride  obedience  began  and  ended  ?
Theekurch  rs  before  che
writing  ofthe works
cage  Deng,
67.30.
How  Chit  could  obeying  God,  and  (atisfie
for  vs  being  man  ?
104.31
pony"  ug  Chriſt  giues  himſelfe  vnto  vs?
cumſhance
127,
ChRÞ  God.
of
Fauna
yy
not  to  be.  vitd  if  it  be  Is
pon  >=  pe
AR  why
ſolute  neceſſitie
542.6
our  Lord  ?
11.30
How  Obriſt
is  Gaid  to  giue  himſeltfe  ?
13.6
Cuall  remieini  a  cul  ieare  no
bene  then
Tongals  way  Cup
himſelfe.
23.20
What
is  the  cowbate  that  nacurall  men  how
wary  +
27
gift  and  facrifice  of
68,
Tis  cate  of  che
combare,  and  the
pc  4  rage
Ro  be  dyae?
perſon
Eh,
Vas
