---
page: 574
pdf_page: 596
---
574
Chaps.
Commentarie
pon  +
thoſe  in  bisnaturall
vere  prophelied  of  before  in-particu-
Jar,  Palms,  22.16,  —_
band;  and  my  feete.  Thelein  his
my  ticall  bodie  onely  in
that  wee  ſhould  be  conformable
vato  him,
lo  this  place  P  >  —  —_—  werein  g
his  owne  perſon;  and
this  he  doeth,not
to  put  any  meritin  them,
(as'S.  Francis  did  )  buttotellifie  himlelfe  to  bee  a  fathtull  ſeruanc
of  Chriſt.  Aodhe  further mecteth  with  the  falſe  apollles,  who
would  necdes  have  had  theGalatians  circumciſed,  that
ſo  they
might
gloriein
the  fleſh,  as
ſet  che  marke  of  circumcilion  x,
ia
ioof
their  fleſh.  As  it  he  ſhould  ay,  1  ſet  not  markes
io  other  mens
of  them,as
the
doe,  but
I  beare  about  in-my  bodie  the  markes  of  the  Lord  leſus,  theſe
arethe  ſignesof  mine  A
ip,  and  argumentsof  fidelitie  in
my  Minitterie,  which  1  fetoot  in  other  mens  fleſh,  but  have  in  1g
mine  owne.
Here  weſce  what  weare  tothinke,and  what  vie  we  are  tomake
of  the  wounds,ſcarres,and  blemiſhes
that  are  in  avy  of  the  Saints
for  the  profellivn
of  the  Goſpell,  and  maintenance
ot  the  trueth,
Firſt,  that  they  are  the  ſufferings,
wounds,
avd  markes  of  Chrilt  ;  ,
himſelfe
(as  Paw/tearmeth
Coloſſ.  1.2.4.  )lecivg  they
arethe  wounds  of  the  members  of  that  bodie,  whereof
he  is  the
head.  Secondly
have  this  vie,ro  convince  the  conſciencesof
perlecutors,and
wicked  men,  that they  are  the  ſervants
of  Chriſt,
which  ſuffer  thus  for  righteouſvelle  fake,  tor  which  cauſethey
are  25
herementioned
by  Pe»/.  T  hus  he  prooves  bimſelfero  bea  mem-
ber
of  Chriſl,
by  the  afflitions  which
hee  ſuffered  for  bis  ſake,
2.
Cor,42.  T  hirdly,if  men  becooſtant  in  their  profeſſion,  namely  in
faith  and  obedience,  they  are  banners  of  victory.  T  hereforeno
man  ought
to  be  aſhamed  of  them,no  moretben  ſouldiers  of  their  30
wounds  andfcarres
:  but  rather  io  a  holy  manner
co  glory  of  them
as  Pax!  did.  For  asitisa  glorieto  a
abrdeny
weunds,and
to  have many  ſcarres,  in  a  good  caule,  io  his  Princes
aarcell,and
forthe  defence  of  his  countrey  :  Soit  is  aglorie  fora
\:briſtian  ſouldier,  to  baue  the  markes  of  the  Lord  leſus  in  bis  35
badie,as
of  wounds,
es,bonds,  impriſonment,  for  the  pro-
feſlion  ofthetruth.  T
Conflammethe  great,(as  the  Eccle-
ſiaſticall  biſtorie  records)  kiiſed  the  boles  of  the  eyes  of  certaine
Dont  which  bad  them  put  out  by  the  Arrians,tor  the  conſtant
fellion  of  the  faithof
Chrilt)  reuercncing  the  vertue  of  the  40
oly  Gholt  which  (hined  in  them,
This  makes  nothing  for  the  fatres  flegeantes,
who  glory  in  the
mackes
