---
page: 576
pdf_page: 598
---
Chap.6.
A  Commentarie  pou
376
atis  data,  Gratia  gratum  faciens,  is  the  fauour  and  loue  of  God,
whereby  he  is  well  pleaſed  with  his  ele  in  Chri(t,  and  thisgrace
isin  God  bimſelfe,  and  no  qualitie  infuſedorinherent  in  vs\:andie
istruly  called  the  firſt  grace,  as  om  cauſe  of  all  other  ſubſe.
quent  graces.Gratia  gratis  data,is  the  tree  gift  of  God  beſtowed  vp-.  5
on  men,  whether  naturall,  or  ſu
rall:  naturall  either  in  the
late  of  innocencie,  before  the  fall,aeorigioal  iuſtice,&c.or  in  the
ſlateof  apoftalie,  lincethefall,  as  the  gift  ofillomination.
eh,  1,9.
and  ſuch  like\:Supernaturall,either  common  gifts,  asthe  gift  of  mi-
racles,  prophetying,  tongues  &cc.  or  ſaving  graces,  asthe  grace  of  19
eleRion,  effeQuall  vocation,  iuſtification,  adoption,  gloritication
&c.  all  which  are  called  tbe  ſecondgrace,becauſethey  flow  from  the
firſt,  as  the  (treame  trom  the  fountaine,  Thus  Pas!  diftinguiſheth
them,  Rows.  5.15.  calling  the  former  the  grace  of
God,  the  latter  the
Lift  by  grace,  Now  gracein  this  place  isnotto  bereltrained  onely  to  15
the  benefit  of  our  redemption,  asitis,2.,  Cor.13.13.  where  the
of  Chriſt  isdiflingaiſhed  from  the  loue  of  Cod,and  commyu-
nion  ofthe  H.Gholt:  but  to  be  vnder(tood  of  the  favour  and  love
ofGod  ,  which  isthe  firſt  grace:  and  of  theſaviog  grace  of  regene-
ration  ,  which
is  the  (ccond  grace  »  or  the  gift  by  grace.  And  it  1scal.  20
led  the  grace  of  oxr  Lord  leſns  Chrift,  hilt,  becauſche  isthe  foun-
faineot  it.  /obn  11,16.  Of  bis  ſmlnes
all
we  bawe  receined  and
grace  for
grace.  Secondly  ,
che  is  the  conduit
or  pipe,  by  which  it  is
conuaied  vntovs.  lob.  1.17.  Grace  andtruth  came  by  leſw;  Chriſt:  for
he  is  our  propitiator  by  whom  alone  we  receiue  grace,  that  is,  the  25
fguour  ot  God,  and  reconciliation:  for  grace,  that  is  forthe  favour
and  loue  which  Godthe  father  bare  vato  his  ſonne;  we  beeivg  ac+
cepted  of  God,  and  de/oned  in  bis  belowed,  Eph.  1.6.Chrilt  is  further
called[
our  Lord)in  fivereſpeAs,  Firll,  by  right  ofcreation.  /oby
1.3.
4/1  things  were  made  by  bim.yYecopdly,  by  right  of  inheritance.  30
Hebr.1.2.  He  1  made  heyre  if  all  things.  Pſal,  2.8.1  nu/gine  thee  the  Hea«
then  for  thine  mnheritance,  and  the  ender
of  the  earth  for  thy  prſſeſſion.
They  hpreoermn  pegs  Cor.6.20.  Trare  bought  wth  4
price,  which
is  neither  (ilyer,  nor  gold,  but  the  pretious  blood  of
Chriſf.r.Per.x.18,19.  and  this  hee  performed  by  a  double  right,  35
narnly,  by  right  ofproprietie,as  a  King  redeemes  his  ſubies,the  ma-
ſter  his  ſeruants\:or  by  r1ght  of  «ffimne,as  the  father  may  redeemethe
brother  anotber,and  onekinſman  another,  Fourtbly,
by  right
of  conquelt,
Zxk.  11;
2  1,/bena  firong  man  armed  ks
palace,e5c.but  when  a  ſtronger  then  he  commeth  tpon  hum,  and  onercom-  40
awrth  bum
be  taketh  from
bum  all  bis  armour  wher  in  be  truſted  &  d1nideth
the  ſpoile  Laltly,by  right  of  contraRtand  marriage,
Hoſ.  <7,
