---
page: 6
pdf_page: 6
---
{Bo
ian”
_n-”  Lt
og
a,
+84.
a  7-4
The.  Epiſtle  Dedicatorie,
i  promiſod,i
bappines  it  ſelfe,  T  hey  being  of  ſuch  perfeiop,that
no-
—_—  need  vnto  them,  norany  thing  taken  from  them  :
of  luch  intallible  certainty,that  heayen  and  earth  ſhall  ſooner  palle
away,  then  onie  title  tallro  the  ground:  ſo  pleaſant  and  is.  ry
that  they  exceedthe  hony  and  the  hony  combe:  and  ſo  profitable,
that  no  treaſures  may  be  compared  vato  —
areable
-  to  make  vs  wiſer  thin  out  enemies,  then  theaged,  then
our  teach-
ers:  to  make  vs  wile  vato  ſalvatiogztd  giuevs  an  inheritice  among
them  that  are  ſanQibed';t  nay,able  toſaveourfoples;  Which  being
ſo,  |  cannotſothciently  wonderthatany  callingt
Chri-
{lians;thovld  make  lefſe  account  of  the  booke  of  God,  then  the
Romanes  in  old  timedid  of  their  twelue  Tables,  andother  Hea-
-  thensof  their  Ritoali-boaks  :  or  then  the  -lewes  at  this.
day  doe
of
their
Talmud,the  Turks  aftheir  Alcorap,thee  Ethiopians  ot
their
Abetclis:
ially  that  thoſe  which  profeſſer
Dwines,
ſhould  fo  diltalte  che  holy  ſcriptuce;that  leaviog  it,theclearefoung
taine  of  the  water  of  lite  ,  they  ſhould  betake  themſelues  to  the
troubled  Ireames  of  mens  deviſes,  and  digge  voto  themſelves  pits
which  will  hold  oo  water,  \Vherein  the
Schoolemen(I  meape  the
Sententiaries,the  Surmiſts,and  Qagdiibetaries)arechiefly(ifnot
only)to  be  cenſored,who  ſetting  alide  the  {criptures,  have  vaniſhed
.  away  in  vaine  ſpeculations  in.their  Queſlions  vpon  Lombard  the
Maler  ofthe  Sentences,&  ypon  Thowas  their  new  Maſter,  So  that
had  it  aot  bene  for  ſome  fewGloſſes  (which  notwithſtanding
like
theglolle  of  Orleans  doe  oftcn  corrupt
the  text)  Nicolaus  de  Lyra,
Hugo  de  S.  Charo,  and  Peter  ComeFtor(whom  I  ſhould  aA  3
tir{t,beiog  ſo  gooda  text  man,that(ashis  name  importeth)hee  did
eate  vp  thetext,  as  the  poore  mans  horſe  drank  vp  the  Moane)we
ſhould  not  haue  had  ampng  ſuch  amultitude  of  writers,one  poore
Commeutvpon  the  Bible  for
divers  hundred  yesres,  And  no  mar-
uaile,  ſeeing.  it-is  av  ordinary  thing  for  yovg  novices  in  Popiſh  V
.,  -  piverlifjes(and  I  would  itwere  but  there  only)not  tolaythe  foun-
dzrio9;  of  their  (tudie  iu  Divinitiexpon  tbe  rocke,  but  ypon  the
waters:  that  is,not  vpon  the  Scripture,
but  ypop  Agzinas,  or  ſome
fuch  Summill:&  to  readetheScripturesno  turther  then  they  giue
them  light  for  the  vadec{tandiog  of  their  Schoole  DoQours.  Wit-
nes-one  of  their  own  writee,who  tellificth  of  bim(clfe;that  he had
ſtudied  Schoole-  divinity  andthe  Canon  Law  for  the  ſpace  of  16.
Schol.  Theol.  eres,  and  yet  never  ſomuch  as  ſaluted  either  the  Scriptures  orthe
Nec  Script.
Fathers.  Which  courle  they  take,cither  becauſe  they  preſurne  to
maine
Y2deritand,aboucthat  which  is  written,contrary  to  the  comman-
dementof  the  Apollle;Xgm.  12.3.  or  for  that  they  iudgethe  Scrip-
tuces
