---
page: 578
pdf_page: 600
---
Chap.6.
:  4  Commentarie  upon
576
ſalutation  Philem.15.  The  graceof
ar  Lord  Teſus  Chrift  bee  with  your
dE  Gdombhams.
1.
/pwit,  isall  one  with that  Coloſſ.4.
Hence  that  phraſe  and  forme  of  ſpeech.in
ſh
Licorgy,
or  Common  praier booke,  (though  milliked  by  ſome,  ndce
led  at  by  others)bath  his  warrant  and  ground,  when  the  Miniſter  5
faith  ,  7be  Lordbewuh  you,  andthe  people  anſwer,  And  wich
thy  fÞm
ri,  wiſhiog  the  ſameto  him  ,that  heto  them,  that  God  would  bee
with  his  {pirit,that  is,  witb  bim.
Againe  ,  marke  how  the  Apoſtle  as  he  did
beginne  with  grace,
chap  1.3.ſohedoth  end  with  _—  vs  fr(t  ofallthat  our  16
ſalvation  is  placed  in  italone,  torthe  begioniog,the  progrelle,and
the  accompliſhment  thereof:  for  election  is  of  grace,  Kow.  11.5,
and  vocation  is  ofgrace,2.7:.1.9.  and  iuſtification,  Rem.  3.24.
andglorification.  Kem.6.23.  Secondly,  that  Chriſt  is  to  haucall
the  glorieof  this  grace  ,  w
weeareſo  bighly  aduanced  into  x  5
the
r  of  God,  both  for  the
unlag,  continuance,  and  en-
ding,  wichoutaſcribiog  any  part  thereof  to  our  ſelues,  orany  0-
ther  creature.  Thirdly,  thatall  our  falutations  aod  greetings,  our
adieves,  and  fare-wells,  ought  to  beegrounded
in  the  grace  of
Chriſt,  otherwiſe
chey  are  but  carnall:  and  therefore
the  Apollle  ,,
biddeth  the  Chriſtians  to  ſalute  one  another  i  «  boy  kiſſe,  or  (as
Peter  ſpeakes)  with  tbe  kiſſe  of  [one  1,  Pet.  5.14,
Rem.16.16,
This  coofutes  the
Popiſh
Doors,  who  doe  not  onely  aſcribe
the  beginning  of  their
to  themſclues,  inco-working
with  God  in  their  firſt  cooverlion  :  butalſotbeendeand
accom  1  4
pliſhmene
of  it,by  workes  of  condignitie,  which(as they  ſay)  are
meritorious  of  eternalllife.
Further  ,  obſerue,  with  what  Emphaſir  the  Apoſtle  concludes
his  Bpiſtle:  Firſt  oppoſing  Chriſt  the  Lord  of  the  houſe  to  Xoſcr
Heb.  3.5.6.
who  wasbut  a  OR  IEneReng  30
inherent  ioſtice,  and  merits  ofworkes.  T  hirdly,the
{pirit,in  which
he  would  have  grace  tobe  ſeated,  tothe  fleſh,in  which  the  Apoltles
gloried  ſo  much.  Laſltly,brotherly
voitic  one  with  another,implied
in  the  word  bretbren,to  the  proudand  lordly  carriage  of  the  falle
apoſtles  over  them.
Ti
T  he  {onclufion.
In  the  ende  of  all,  it  is
in  the  Greeke,and
Siriacke  copies
that  this  Epiſtle  was  wriztew  10  the  Galatians  from  Rome.\V  hich  polt-
ſcript  ſcemes  to  be  erroneous  and  falſe:
for  firſt,  there  is  not  atit-
tle  in  the  whole  Epiſtle,  that
thelealt
iokling
that  it  ſhould  40
haye  beene  writtea  from  Rome:  whereas  in  all the  reſt,  which  are
written
from  thence,Pav/  makes  metion  ofbis  boadsGimpriton
men
