---
page: 579
pdf_page: 601
---
the  Epifile
to  the  Galatians.
Chap'6-
rent.  Secondly,the  varietieof  copies  argues  thevncertentie
bf  it,
i  ſome  copiesit
is  ſaid  to  have  bin  /exr  from  Epheyis,  as  Calc-
tan  and  Hyperinrafhrme  ,
in  their  Commentaries  vpon  this  place.
Thirdly,  Bayen\:ia(if  his  authoritie  be  of  any  waight  in  this  caſe)  af.  Annal.  Tom.
5  firmeth  that  it  is  not  likely
or  credible  that  it  was  written  trom
thence,  Bat,beit  grante#that  thispolt-ſcript  were  trucindeede;yet
it  isnopartof  CanovicallScripture,  asnot  being  written  by  the  A-
le,  butadded  afterwards  by  the  Scribes  which  Eopied  ovrthe-
piltles.  Neither  isthis  onely  true  of  po(t-ſcripts,but  allo  of  loſcrip-
I®  tionsor  Titles  prefixed  before  Epiſtles  ,  they  ate  no  part
of  holy
writ.
hismay  ealily  be  prooued  in  particolar\:for  1.touching  Poſt-
ſcripts,  the  Greekecopies  agree  in  this  ,  thatthe  firſt  Epifſleto  the
Corinthians,  was  writtes  from  Philappi,and  ſent  by  Strphinas,  Firtuna-
tur,  Achaicus
and  Timorbens:  when  as  it  is  certen,  it  was  written  from
15,  Epheſws,For  hirll;chap.  16.  5.he  ſaith,  He  will  come  ro  them  when  be  (ball
goethrough  Matedlonia,   T  herefore  Paul  was  rot  then  at  Phipps,  a  *
chiefe  citiein  AMaredonia,   Secondly,in  the  19  oftheſame  chapter
he  faith  ,  Alrhe  Churches  of  Aſia  ſalute  you,,  which  ſhewes  plainely,
20  that  when  Pax/writ  this  Epiltle,  he  was  at  Fpheſurin  Aſia,  not  at
Phbilgptin  Enrope.  Thirdly,
v.  8.  be  faith,  hee  will  abide  at
Epbeſnttsll
Pemecoſt  therefore  he  was  not  then  at  Phipps,  Fourthly,thatit  was
written  betore  the  tumolt  in  Epbeſics  raiſed  by  Demetrix4  and  his
ces,
and  ſo  conſequently  before  hiscomming  to  Phriipps:  as
5  aſothat  it  was  ſent  by  Twetheus  and  Eraſtus,it  is  manifeſt,  v,10.0f
that  chapter,being  a__  with  A#.19.v.21,22,  Laſlly,theSy-
wi
riacke  tranſlatour  y.
th  me,  io  afhrming  that  it  was  written
'E
and  fo  doth  Baron;  Amnnal.  tow.  1,p49.494  1.39.  A.
20  gaine;t
pt  ofthe  2.  to  the  Corinthians  bath,itwas  wrir-
ten  from  ty  gre  ſent  by  Titus  avid  Luke:  whereas  the
Rbemuſts  (ifwee  may  give  any  credit  to  their  teſtimony  ,  whoelſe-
where  maketitlespart  of  the  CanonicalScripture)lay  it  was  writtew
at
Troafras  itis  thought;  And  Baron.emal  tom.  1.9.9.5  901.51,  An
twerp,  thinkesit
was  written  at  Nitopoks,  vpon  this  occaſion,  thatin
55  his  former  Epiſtlefrom  Epbeſus,promiliong  rocome  vato  them  as
he  palſed  through  Macedonia,&  comming  nor,  1.Cor.16,  hedoth
in  this  excuſe  himſelfe;  2.  Cor.  1.15.16,  17.  compared  with  2,  Cor.
7.5.  Neitberis  ita  good  reaſon  to  proouethat  Tits  carried  this
EpiſHe(as  itisin  the  polt  ſcript)  becauſe  Pas!  ſaith,  heeſenr  Titrs  to
40  !hem  andanother  with  bum.  2,Cor.$.18,22.20d  12.r8;tor  Pow!  [peakes
of  Tawrhis  comming  vnto  them  before  that  eine:  neither  may  it
be  thought  that  Tires  was  ſentthe  ſecond  time  votothem,  colide-
ring  that  departing  fro  Macedonia,  &  ——_  Tins  with  him,be  =
P  3
