---
page: 580
pdf_page: 602
---
Chap.6.
A  Commentarix  pou
him  in  Creere,
See  Coſ@  Baron,emaltom.t.
Autnerp.p.59  1.1.40.  Be-
lides,  the  &bewrſts  control!  the  ſubſcription;
of  the  br(t  Epilile  to
the  T  hefſalonians  which  bath  it  thus,  7he  firſt  Epiſtle
totbe  T  heſ[a-
lonians  written  from.  Athens.  For  in  their  preface,they  are  bold  to  af-
firme,that  «  ſeemerh  rather  to  bane  bin  written  at  Cormmth,  thenateA-  5
rhe  :  and  they
giue
this  reaſon  of  it,  becauſe
after  the  ſending  of
Timothy
to  Theſſ<lome:,Pauland
he  meete  not  at  Arbexs  agaive,but
at  Cormth,  And  Barmmwu  affirmeth,  that
it  ſeemes  to  have  beene
written  preſently
after  that  Sy/#s  and  7iworbens  came  to  him  to
Corinth,out  of  Macedonia,  by  comparing  A#.18,5.with  1.7beſ.3.  16
6.  dnl  or  H487  1x.  And  Emanuel  Sadoth  cenſurethe
Syri
on
aldfees
olubienbninntdbabur  T
jog  that  7imorky.was
theo  abſeot,  The
afbrmeio  the  ar-
tof  the  ſecond  Epillle.
for  albeit  the  Greeke  polM(cript  bath
t,  tliat  it  was  written
Athens,  yetthey  rather  thiake  it  was  j  5
written
from  Comb,  where
Paul  abaed  a  yeareand  (ixc  moneths,
AA.  18.1  1  becauſe  theticle  is  like  voto  the  felt  Epiltlc,Pavlevd
Sy(-
nanu  rand  Tamotheus
£5  c,
And.  Baronn;  (aithgthat  it  ſhauld
be  written
ion  Fa
eee  |
as  we
it  was  —  loone
after
the  former,as  may  appeare
inſcription,  Paul  and  Sylua-  ,,
"#1;  and  Timothens,(they  continuing  together:  )  but  the  |
written  from  Cor:»th,  (as  hath  bin  prooued,)  and  therefore  the  lat-
ter  :  ſpecially  conſidering  that Pax/  went  from  Acbenr,and  aboad
at  Corimth  «  yeare  and  a  hhalfe,  and  returned  not  backeagaine  to
Athens,but  went  to  Epheſus,  Aune/.tom,
1.p4g.  4574.23:
Addc  hereunto,that  whereas  the
ptof  che  fiell  to  Tawatby
faith,it  was  written  from  IIa
Oapaſinns
the  Rhemifs  notwithllanding  in  the
argument,
arty,
haue  bio  {o  called  long  after  Par  deceaſe  :  tbe  firſt  men
is  made  of  it(as  ſome  [_  obſcrued)being  in  beats  of  th
Synode
ot  Copſlantinop.  Barnes  is  of  _—_  that  it  was  writ-  40
ten  from  MAcedenia.tem,  1,pag.
554  grounding  his  conieure  vpon
1.7m.1.3.44  1  beſonght  thee  toabide  at  Epbeſws  yohen  ]
went  into  CMa-
ce
