---
page: 603
pdf_page: 625
sortable_pagination_id: "603"
---
4  TABLE,
In  enery  knowne  finne  we  are  wronged.418.17
In  this  guidance  there  are  foure  aftions  of  the
161d.
Sinne  a  burden  to  wboru,
wade  Burden,
tothywerkeef  cods  Spicichath  res
Sinne  a  ſpiritual!  burden,
45947
gore  by  mg  caſed  of  the  burden  of  Gane.
Thepropeniebi#
the
workes  of  the  Shi  +
465.
propertie
pirit
;a
How  finne  is  finite  and  how  infinite,
498.33
291.73
The  efficacie  of  the  Spirir,
bid.26
Solirarie  and  Monaſticke  life  againſt  che  lighe  of
What  it is to  live  and  walke  inthe  Spirit?  400
naruce.
568.17
Why  the  ſecond  perſon  is  called  Sonne.  246.4
17.&c.
VVhether  the  Sonne  be  God.
1614.18
A  _  whereby
to  know  whether  a  man  hath
F  wo  kinds  of  ſorrow,
120.26.&c.
in  his  heartthe  Spirit
of  6od  or  no,  401,23
A  point  of  great  skill  to  bring  a  ſoule  in  order
were  men  oppoled  to  carnall  are  of  rwo
and  trame  againe.
406  23
orts.
of
Three  things  te  be  conſidered  in  the  ſoule  ,  the
Spiituall  men  are  more  fit  to  reſtore  thoſe
that
are  fallen  then  any  other.
ibid.12
ſubſtance,the  faculties,and  the  qualities.  562.
Divers  good  and  ewill  things  are  tearmed  by  the
49
V  Vhatis  meant  by  wharſoexcy
«  man  ſowes  that
name  of  the  Spirit.
411,16
Two  kinds  of
ſpyings.
74-30
ſhall  be  reape.
435.12
Sowng  what  it  fignificz
in  the
Scripture.  161.24
Ot  ſtanding  fait  m  libertie,the  manner  and  time
Obtections  againſt  this  proverdiall
ſpeech  ;
of  it,
228.8
whbatſoruer
4  man  ſowes  that  ſhall  be  reape.  ibid.
Two  kinds  of  fubicRion.
236.12
SubieRion  to  the  ſpirit  hath  two  parts.v44  ſpirit,
$5.&c.
The  diſtinion  of  ſowing  to  the  ficſh,  and  to
Succeſſion  is  of  three  ſorts.
71.33
our  fleſh,
490.4.  &  497-19
The  (uccefſours  of  the  firſt  preachers  had  an  or-
dinarie  calling,
21.6
By  ſawing  to  the  fleſh  what  is  ment,
497:32
To  (ow  tothe  ſpirit  whar  it  js.
ad  40
Fuce  vſes  of  our
ings.
149.6
The  (pirit  hath  fue  properries.
363.19
What  1s  the  Spirit  ?  a  treatiſe.
262.26
A  propertic  of  falfe  teachers  is,;to  vrge  earneſtly
All  exerciſ:  s  of  Chriſtian  religion  are  to  bee  un
then  Vwne  ceremonies  vpon  others,  Jas  12
A  propertie  of  falſe  teathers  to  reach
falſe  do-
the  Spirit.
336.21
The  operation  of  the  Spirit  is  threefold.  128.4
Qrine  for  auoiding'of
perſecution,
$546.14
What  the  Spirit  ſignifies  ?
143.18,
The  effenciall  difference
berweene  true  and  falſe
What  is  meant  by  the  giving  or  ſending  of  the
teachers,
$47-7
Spirit,
143-18
Another  properue  of  falſe  teachers  to  compell
In  what  order  the  Spirit  is  gwen  ?
179.29
others  to  obſerue  that  which  they  themſe
We  recee  the
Spin  for  lixe  endes.
190.4
will  not  obſerve.
$49.
Another  note  of  falſe  teachers  ro  pretend  relighe
Why  the  holy  Ghoſt  is  called  the  Spirit  of  the
Sonne,
258.36
on  to  cloake  their  wickednes,
550,42
The  manner  how  the  holy  Ghoſt  is  ſent.2  59.29
The  properrtie  of  falſe  teachers  is,  to  ſet  a  faire
Fogre  workes  in  the  Spirit  in  cauſing  belecuers
ſhew  vpon  the  marter.
($239.28
Temperance  whar?foure  rules  for  the  pradiif
to  cri.  Aba,  Father.
260.3  x
The  Spirn  of  grace  in  Chriſtians  is  more  excel-
of  it.
196.6
By  what  law  Tenths  are  due:
202,24,&c.
lent  then  that  of  creation  in  two  reſpeRs,  ;  64.
Ly.
Of  what  value  the  tcſtimonie  of  the  Church  is.
Of  the  operation  of  the  y  e's
161d.16
29.2
T  he  whole  worke  of  the  Spirit  may  bee  reduced
There  muſt  be  2  chriſtian  roleration  one  of  ano-.
ro  three  ations.
m_—
ther,  for  the  mainrenance  of  Church  peace.
The  Spirit  makes  vs  change  and  renew  our
a&ti
261.17
ons,in  three  reſpets.
265.6
Im  what  it  Rands?
ibid.  rg
The  luſt  of  the  Spirit  hath  ewo  ations.
368.r
To  what  it  ſcrues,
ibid.43
Whether  there  may  not
be  a  tolleration  for  Po.
The  office
of  the
Spirit  is  rſt  to  regenerare,  ſe-
condly  to  guide  the  regenerate,
372.4
pery?
ibid  18
Rr  3
Vnwrit
