---
page: 61
pdf_page: 83
sortable_pagination_id: "61"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.2.
Andthough  he  circumciſed  7imthie,  yet  would  he  riot  circamcile
Tits,  lelt  bee  ſhould  offend  the  godly,  and  by  his  example  hure
Chrilſian  libertie,
ikewile  ,  the  good  lawes  of  men,  whether  civill  or  Eccle(ia-
5  ſticall,tending  to  the  common  good,  and  ſeruing  for  edification,
reltrainethe  vie  of  things  indifferenr,ſo  that  chey  which  (hall  doe
otherwiſe,  then  theſe  lawes  commaund,  with  2  contemptuous,  or
diſloyall  minde,
are  guiltie  before  God;  yet  heeretwo  cautions
muſt  beremembred.  One,  that  the  lawes  of  men  doe  not  change
10  thenature  of  thingsinditferent  :  for  itis  the  propertieof  God,  by
willing  this
or  that,  co  make  it  good,  oreuill.  Neither  doe  they
takeaway  thevicof  thiogs  iaditterent,  For  libertie  granted  by  a
ſoueraigne  power  cannnot  bee  reverſed  by  an  inferiour  power.
Thererolnians  lawes  doe
ao  more  but  temper  and  moderate
x5  the  ouercommon  vle  of  things  indifferent.  The  ſecond  caution
is,  That  when  the  end  of  a  law  ceafeth,when  there  is  nocontempt
of  theauthoritiethat  made  the  law,  when  no  offence  is  given:
athing  indifferent  remaiges  in  his  tree  vie  without  (inne,or  breach
of  conſcience,
Againe,  heere  wee  learne,  thata  thing  indifferent,  when  it  is
20
made  neceſſarie  to  ſalvation,  (as  Ciffumcilion  was)  is  notto  bee
vied.  This  conclulion  ſerves  to  ouertbrow  the  Popilh  religion.
For  it  ſtands  in  the  obſervation  of  things  indifferent,  as  meates,
drinks,apparell,;times,&c,  And  thevſing,or  the  not  viing  of  them
25  is  mace  necellariecucn  iaregzrd  uf  manstaluation.  For  the  ab{li-
nence  from  things  that  are  by  nature  indiffcrent,is  madea  part  of
Gods  worſhip,and  meritoriousof  eternall  life.  For  example:  to
marrie,  or  bot  to  marrie,  is  for  naturea  thing  indifferent  :  and
therefore  when  ab(linencefrom  marriageis  made  necefſarie  (asit
30  isin  diversorders  of  menand  women)the  nature  of  the  thing  is
changed,  which  God  hath  left  free,  andic  is  a  dotrine  of  diuels,
which  is  taught.  *;
Here  againe  we  learne  tomake  a  difference  of  p\:rfons.  Someare
weake,ſome  are  obltinate.  Weake  ones  are  {uch,  as  hauing  turned
55  vnto  God,  and  carrying  in  their  hearts  a  purpoſe  in  allthingsto
pleaſe  God,nevertheletle  do  lundry  things  anitle,vpos  limple  ig-
norance,or  bad  cultome,til  they  be  better  informed.
Ot  thele  Paul
faith,  that  hee  became  all  to  ally  that  kee  might  ſaue  ſome,  1.Cor.g  22.
and  fortheir  ſakes  he  condeicended
to  circumciſe  Timethie,  And
40  if  we  that  haue  ſcarce  adrop  of  mercie  in  vs,  multthus  bearewith
them  that  are  weake,  much  more  wilt  God  doe  it,  whois  mer-
cieit  ſclfe,  The  good  ſhepheard  5ring:  home  the  ſiray  ſhrepe  pon  his
(ho:  lders:
