---
page: 589
pdf_page: 611
---
COOGEE
LAS,
+:
CINE  SN  EIL
Cr  TINC
—_
An  exac  Tableof  -
prone  nh
in  this  Commentarie_.
The  firſt  figure  ſhewes  the  page,  the  ſecond  theline.
Ne
doQrine  Gods  immediate  word.
e  bleſfing
of  Abraham  came  from  the  cur-
whai
is  the  office  of  an
ſed  death  of  Chriſt,
198.14
Application  of  'Chriſt  and  his  benefics  is  to  =
Children  of  Abraham  are  of  two  forts.  155,32
made  by  certaine  degrees.
327.25
nt
——__  are  children  of  Abraham  three
apes  of  Chriſt  ſtands-in  two  things.
ibid.  3  4
10g.
We
muſt  doe  three  things  to  walke  in  the  ſteps
Three  grounds
of  Apprehenkon.
109.25
of  Abrahams  faith,
156,28
Two  degrees  of  Apprehention,
110.20
pa  not  Accepcing  the  perſon  of  man.  7g.
Arabia  where  fituare  ?
50.25
Authoritic  of  Sctipwre  :  ſee  Scripture,
Bk  Acail)
22.35
How  the  Church  ſhould  accurſe  any  man  ,  and
in  what  order,
22.29
Admiſſion  into  the  kingdome  of  grace  is  either
Three  markes  of  inward
ow,  1,  $11.25
outward  or  inwatd,
352.18
Bapriſme-  in  the  church
of
no  hgne  of  the
rue  church.
212.23
Of  Adopnon.
256.27
Bapritme  raken  fixe  waies..
312.14
lathe  grace  of  Adoption'there  be  two  aQts  of
Ia  the  couenant  of  Baptiſme  Gods  aftions  are
God.
206,41
The  ſoundation  of  our  Adoption.
232,11
tWOMans  one.
231744
The  endes
of
Bapiiſine  are  foure,
218.8
Adalterie  to  be  punilhed  with  death,
204  16.
The  efficacy
of
Baptiſme,
,  248,17
What  Adultery  is,1nd  how  great  2  fiane?  3744  H
Argaments  of  Papilts  Anſwered.
219-7
Of  flying  adulcerie  and  fornication,
Two  ſpeciall  occaſions  of  Adulterie  and  fr
Bapriſmne  doth  noc  aboliſh  originall  Gane.2  20.7
cation.
ib  43
How  Bapuilme  conferres
grace  2,  ,  221437
Of  the  neceſſity  of  Baprilme,
22429
In  thit  Adulteric,  fornication,&c.are  workes  of
the  fleſh  we  are  taughrtheee  things  _  3  Opt
"ob
9  the  peuou,
2=minte
Inordinate  aff:  Rions.  what  ?
bodily  Afiction  co  be  ſuffered  ioyfully  t
je
Pp
profeſſion  of  the  truth.
$75
Apar  figures  Terulalem  two  waies,
"ol
Chil
of  Dake  cohlags.e  not  to  =
All  put  for  many.
259-14
baptiſed.
229.16
rang  acer
a  Lvnfel,  and  ha  5
hag
whether
any  law
when  a
ks
may  be  Ts:
remedie  of  it  *
mES
20,&c.
Rene  dicy,againſt  Anger,  Obvetions  anſ
nerd.
Chad  *  nick  Cri
ec  mamcate  may  ks
or  i  —_
wrae  in  kh,  bn
;  Baptiſme  is  to  be  adminiftred  but  once,  230.11
Of  he  plage  of  B,  oping
230.26:
Mera  Fn  ke"  Bf
aptiſme.
230.74.
Pets
abuſe  Bapriſme,
332-24
19;
41
We
