---
page: 595
pdf_page: 617
---
4A  TABLE.
to  the  faithful,
Reckinedo  dorguod  eſpecially
in  vs.
Gare  Ry  wg  good
things  tobe
The  order  to  bee  obſerned  in  doing  of  goodto
er  eds  commanded  PR...
others.
$426.29
There  is  —  doing  good  after  this
peace
a  7
life.
$31.18
erace  and  workes  cannot  ſtand  together  in  iuſti-
7  are  toe
Wherem  ftands  the  efficacie  of
Whether  i  can  be  reliſted.
How  efficacie  of  grace  and  att
cripture
Be
fignifierh
Pre
Preventing  grace  is  rwo-fold.
by  G
468.24
HD.  $9
A  felicitie  ro  receive  the  do&trine  of  the  G_
The  _  of  grace  --
God  1
their  I-
and  what  benefirs
come  thereby.
28,
mage  in  the
of  them
The  law  and  Goſpel  not  one  1n  ſubſtance  of  do-
Falling  from  grace  though  bas
i  in  Ki
Qrine,
$3  3-17
The  Goſpel  muſt  bee  preached  —_—
The  hanedof  od  cacein
man  is  the
begine
law,for  two  cauſes.
13
Jt  muſt  bee  preached  tothe  Gentiles  for
ro
nmg
355g
A  en  NS  in  thenew  T
caules,
There
x  btone  Gahan  ne
ma  of
la
One  lie
grace  of
04
being  tidy  ee  HD
Pop
religion  ſubuerts  the  Goſpel  of  Cheilt,
345-4
Bet  th  anceceden  and
ft  grace  here
Thedodtrine  of  the  Goſpel  called  the  truth  for
merges
or  ſecond  grace,  373.
rwo  caulcs.
139.29
The  antiquitie/of  the  Goſpel,
153.38
n—_  mencioned  in  the  Scripture  twofold.  555,
40
How  it
differs  from  the  law,
Vide  Law,
The  colpel  was  not  reveiled  to  the  world  nll
Gratia  gratum  fatiens,  and  gratia  gratis  dats.  ib,
after  the  comming  of  Chrilt.
199.11
4z
Perſecution  and  the  preaching  of  the  coſpel  goe
Gratia  gratum  faciens,  naturall,  or  ſupernacurall.
hand
in  hand.
$47-43
ibid.  576.7
The  6oſpel  is  no  new  law,
429-34
Why  the  fauour  and  loue  of  cod{  is  called
the
Jn  wharthe  law  and  coſpel  agree,
ibid.  5
6race  of  Chriſt,
1644.33
The  foule  the  ne
EG.  $7733
They  differ  in  hue  things.
,  7
op
Why
the  6olpel  18  called
_—_
ſterie.
_—_  called
Hatred  whether
a  finne  ornot,
be  doctrine
of  the
2354.9
eellencie  the  word,  allo  the  word  of  :  tog-
VVhar  iris.
31
_  of  cod  ,  of  Gluation,  of  life,
467.
VVhar  aright  heart
is.
97.12
VVhat
an  humble  and  honeſt  heart  is.
D  i/  bo
Ouri  i  pheedalone  in  grace,
$98.11
Mans  hear  peruerſe  to  6ods  ordinance.  545.43
#y.-e  hay  erace  three  waies,
206,  35.  Yide
V'Vhar  Herehfie  is.
131.25
de
I_  berweene  herefie  and  ſchiſine,  184,
The  knowledge
of  the  true  60d  ſtands
in
fixe
Dieren
c  berweene  Herefie  and  a  ſimple  error.
217.  of
we  mens  by  erace-
ZI
The  cauſes
of  grace
bee the  Father  and  Chrilt,
Three  things  in  herefie.
idid.  22
ng  ro  preſerue  our  ſelues  from  hereſies.
&  how  they  arediftint
in  regard  of
a”
ner.of  work!
the  hirſdcauſe  of  Brood
492-35
Then  eto  dyes
ofhonnr,
#Kace
in  Gods
Ido'x-
