---
page: 596
pdf_page: 618
---
Falſe  cauſes  of  uſtifcation.  .
/.
What  is  that  thing  in  Chriſt,  by
and
for
welt
we  are  iuſtthied.
103.29
VWee  are  not  iuſtifed  onely  by  the  paſſion
of
Chriſt,
105.30
T  he  meanes  of  iuſtification.
107.40
107.40
Faith  alone  luſttfierh.
luſtice  rwofold,of
the  perſon  and  of  the  aR.154
Thedanger  ofthe  dorine  of  Tuſtificarian  by
2.9
+436
153-28
WO«
$0.36
Iuſhfication  is  twofold  :  of  the  perſon,  -
faith  of  the
Things  indifferent  not  to  be  vicd
as  oft
as  wee
339-25
Arguments  again  ,uſtification  by  works.zz  1.3
liſte  and how  we  will.
50.30
Fran?  them  indiffcrenc.
Faith
and  love  no  ioyne  cauſes  in  iuſtification.
v.33.
A  thing  indifferent  whenic  is
made  necelſvie  to
.ver  obſtinutely  maineraineth  the  do-
faluation
is  not  to  be  vied.
1hid.  21
&rine  of  mſtification  by  workes,cannot  be1a-
ued.
329.16
Infantes  how  they  are  to  bee  tearmed  inno-
Re
Obiedtions  remooued.
thid.1g
cents,  and  how net
45  3-19
The  kindes  of  ruſtibcation.
114.24
an..'%
Infancs
haue  no  good  watkes,
$7.43
The  prattiſe  of  them  that  are  iuſtived,
11  5.10
indo  29
be
intpad  ane  by
thy  booke  of  Con-
But  one  Inſtificarion.
1554
ſcience,bur  by  the  booke  of  life.
488.2
Papilts  in  the  day  of  death  renounce  Tuſtificar-
Inſcriptions
no  part  of  Scriprtures.  -  $30.23
What  the  Intercefſion
of
Chiilt  is.
3264.26
on  by  workes.
no
Cerrain  Interpretation
of  Scripture  where  to  be
There  is  a  Iuſtification  before  God,and  a
fcarion
men.
169.6
found.
$1423
Toy  is  twofold.
33
We  are  Tuſtihed
not  onely  by  the  death  buralſo
of  grace  in
this  life  Gandes
ln
thrqe  things,
by  the  obedience
of  Chri
241.40
No  Iuſtiication  by  workes,
-76.s
i  Eirka  double  fine
1rhid.z  320d  38
