---
page: 62
pdf_page: 84
sortable_pagination_id: "62"
---
A  Commentarie  pon
Chap.2.
7z
Foulders  +  hee  carries  bis  lambes  w  bi  beſome,1ſas,40.11,  Hee  will  xot
fa-
os  @
quench  the  [moaking  flaxe,  1/ai.  42,  He  ſpares  them  that  feare  him
ther  ſpares  bis  childe,  CMalich,  3.  17.  This  beeing  alwayes  rc»
membred,  thzt  wcake  ones  truely  turne  to  Gud,  and  carrie  in
their  hearts  an  honeſt  purpoſe  not  to  (inne  againſt  bislawes  at  5
Obſtinate  perſons,areſuch
any  time,  wittingly,avd  o—_—
as
of  wil-
and  praiſe  bad  things,
profelle  the  faith,  and  yet
not  to  bee  berne
tullignorance,and  of  malice.  Theſeperſonsare
with,nor  to  bee  reſpeRtcd  :  and  inreſpeR  of  them,P
aw/  would  cot
19.
ciecumciſe  Titme.
Laſily,  in  that  7irs  was  not  compelled  to  bee  circumciſed,  it
may  bee  demaugded  ,  whether  Recuſapts  may  bee  compelled
the  exerciſes  of  celigion?  I  anſwer,  yea:  for  exerciſcs  of  religion
t,  as  Circumciſion  was.  Jofias  madeaco-
are  not  things  indi
uenant  withthe  Lord,  and  hee  canſed  all  bis  ſabiefts  to  ftandtort,  2+  15
fealt  of  his  ſonne,ſaith
Chros.34  32.  The  King  at  the
of
mariage
the  gueltes,  Compel/them  toenter
in,  Lukg  14.23.  It  isobieRed,  that
rgen  may  not bee  compelled  to  belecue.  1  anſwer  :  it  isthe  com-
manodement  of  God,proove  the  ſpirits,1,[ob.q.1.  and  this  comman-
dement  pertainestoallperſons.  Therfore
h  men may not  be  26
compe'led  to  beleeue  :  yetHhay  they  be  compelled  tocome  to  the
congregation,
to  heare  our  Sermons,  and  therein  the  reaſons  and
groupds  of  our  doftrine,  that  they  may  triewhat  isthetruth,  and
cleaue  vnto  it.  For  this  is  their  dutie,
4  For  all  the  falſe  brethren  that  crept
in  :  who  came  in  pri-  2
udly  to  ſpie  out  our  libertie  which  wee  haue  in  Chriit  Jeſus,  that
they  mizbt  bring  vs  into  bondage  :
5  To  whom  we  gaue  not  place  by  fubiettion  for  an  houre  that
the  truth  of  the  Goſpel  might  continue  with  you.
30.
P  au!  had  laid  before,that  Tic  was  not  compelled  to  be  circom-
ciled  :  now  hee  addes:  For
all  the  falſe  bretbres,that  isthough  the
falſe  brethren  did  what  they  could  tathe  contrary.  Here  then  Paul
ſets  downe,  who  were  the  cauſe  that  Tirms-  was  not  circumciſed,  35
namely,  certaine  perſons  at  leruſalem,  and  them  bee  ſets  ff
twopro
Wage  pen  and  they  crept  into
the  Church,
Touching
the  firlt,  by  it  weelearne,
that  the  Church
of  God  vp»
an
earth,cucn  when  it  is  at  the  belt,  hath  wicked  men,
and  bypo-
crites  in  it.  Ig  Adems  family,
there  is  Cain:  inthe  Arke,  there  is
49,
Cham.
in  Chrilts  familic  orkboolethere  is  /ude;.1n  ==="
by  the  chieie  Apoſe,ther
of  Icrulalem,  planted  and  governed
8.
