---
page: 601
pdf_page: 623
---
4A  TABLE.
The  workes  of  the  regenerite  are  mixed  with
ſinne,  and  in  the  rigour  of  wſtice  deſerve  dam-
301-27
NE
Inyo  anſwered.
391.3
Winr  poore  to  be  releiued?
86.4
Paſtors
care  *f  the  poore  wherin  it  c6(iſts.5b.
10
Poltſcripes  no  part
of  canonical  Scripture.  579.9
to
Reaſons  why
we  muſt  prouide  for the  poore.  88,
gainſt
ceioycing  in  ones  (elfe,
10.
The  Goſpell  muſt
be
preached  though
all  men
VVhatrues  we  o  be
obſer  inthe
reioyin
in  the  teſtimony
of  a  good  conſcience.
be  aw]
349.26
Preaching  conraines  foure  miniſteriall  ations.
Plorying.
47-27.
47.27
Falle
ceioycing  whereinit  confiſtech,
459-9
Eftc&tuall  and  powerfull  preaching  of  the  word
Retoycers  are  of  foure  ſorts,
bd.
1  3
To  reioyce
in  a  mans  ſelfe  what?
417  3;
ttinds
1a  two
things,
140.41
The  chiefe  principle  in  religion  what.
383-3;
Preaching  mull  be
plaine,
«bid.1y
VVnerher  ut  be  Tawfull  to  compell  men  to  im-
Neceflatie  for  all  men.
144-235
The  word  muſt  be  diſpenced  inthe  infirmirie
of
brace  religion...
F4r.ir
mans  fleſh  for  divers  cauſes,
284.25
The  Magiltrare  may  compell  obſtinate  recu-
The  bench  of  preaching,
287.321
ſancs  ro
erue  religion,
ibid.  1
Prayer  to  Saincs  &  angels  is  carnal  prayer.264.1
ObieRiops  to  the  contrary  anſwered.
bid.
Pauls  manner
in  reproouing.
16,5
Pray  onely  to  God.
264.25
Liberty  in  reproomng  with  three  caveats.  go.  16
Thr  right  manner  of  ſecking  the  praiſe  of  men.
422.15,
—_  we  vſc  not  in  preaching
re-
py  es  as  Tohn  Bapriſt  did.
247-3
Primacic  is  2  of  order,of  power.
$2.22
Authorine  of  the  Church  no  principle  38;  8
manner  of
vade  Reſtore,
Externall
and  bedily  priviledges  are  ofno  mo-
He  chat  is  iniured  is  ficrer
to  reprooue  him  char
ment
in  the  kingdome
of  Chit.
336.21
offered  the  iniurie  then  any  other.
4rg.18
Reproofes  muſt  not  be  deferred.
496.17
Gods  promiſes  lie  as  yoide  'rill  che  parricutar
time  of  their  accompliſhment.
179.8
No  nent  OREn  he  lothto  be  reprooued
33
The  promiſe  made  to  Abraham  is  a  couenane,
A  treatiſe  of  Chriſtian  reprooke.
414.32
or  Teſtament  and  how  ?
85.11
Who  are  to  be  reprooued,
1/1d.z6
Chriſt  is  the  foundation  of  all  the  promiſes  of
God,  partly  by  merit,partly  by  cfficacie.186
20.
Why  belcevers
are  called  children
of  promiſe?
korners,and
the
openy
perſecuters
17.18.
word  are not  to  be
Prfncball  ſenrences,  are  not  at  all  times  true
Men  are  to be  reprooued
for  any  finne  ——
and  in
particular.
455.36.
Gods  mT  6.  vſcth  cuill  things  well,  207.6
41
And  for  wrongs  offered  vs.
413.4.
SubieCtion
to
puni
hath  3.  parts.  331.3%
Obie&ion
againſt
reproofes
19.31
puniſhments  in
Who  are  to
421.1$
4990.  17,&c,
In  five  caſes
wee  are  acer  bound  ravipetenre
thers  offending.
422.20
The  workes  of  redemption  exceed  the  works  of
In  what  manner
are men  to  bee  reprooued,  ſer
creation.
13.23
downe
in  ten  rules.
Of  the  redemption  of  man  from  ynder  the  law,
253-3
Jo
waies.
4274»
OR
the  onely  redeemer,
oe  markes  of  regeneration.  311.25.
A  man  may
another  4.waies.427.23+
of  regeneration
is  never  terly  extinguiſhed.
In  firting  our
to  the  oftence  commit.
ted
we  muſt  pur  a  difference  berwixt  Ginne  and
203.14
What  true  regeneration  is  ?
333-3
finae,
428.10
Re  3
In
