---
page: 604
pdf_page: 626
---
A\TABLE.
Vmuricen
Teadinonstendered  as  3
part  of
Gods
Wc  ———_—
-Whar  witchcraft  is  ?  a  treatiſe  of  the  ground
and  kindes
of  it,  |
The
is  troudled  three  waies.
i  Aras
|  Whar  is  a  witch.
315.16
F;
e  #*
©®y
LE
along
to  mooue  men4o  {peake  and
deale  eru-
that  ſerue  to  diſconer  a  witch.
v1.5
x.
|  Oe,
ty.
{3
Falſe
and  vncertaine  ſignes.
bp
The  time  of
all
cuencs  determined  wore
Wauues
the  Tewes  oftwo  forts.
304.
Thewatinde  cans  end:  ohiet  of  oor  fas
VS
MEA.
th.
"44
+0
RT
Dae  time  how  ig  may  be  vaderſtood.
Fra-35
6x1
"00"
\  4  »  Ie"
V  Ve
muſt  make  a  holy,  and  proficable  »  $
The  word  of  God  is  the  matter  of  the  miniſtery,
and  how  it  is  to  be  caught  and  heard.  26.  5.&c.
time.
$37
9  =  ap  not  vypon  the  authoritie  of  the
VVe  mult  cedeeme
the  time  loſt,  in  three  re-
pt
yal.z2
49.
Bur  ypon  it  ſelfe.
68.
ble:  uations  of  times which  be  forbidden.
52  9.
6,
The  word  mult  be  diſpenſed
ia  the  infirmitie  of
The  kindes  of  ralawhill  oblcrumion  ofrimg,  6i-
mansHeſh  for  diuerſe  cauſ-s.  wide  preach.
ther  Iewith  or  Heathemth,
and  whercia  they
Labourers  in  the  word  may  Lawfally  take  wages,
lots,
EL
"®
v  14.26
though  chey  have  ſufficient.  of  their  @wne  to
conliſt?
ibid
40
Lawfull  obſcruxtion  of  time  twofold,  diuine
or
maiataine  themſelues,
479-13
LO
EIT
«i
_  |
There  be  no  meritorious  orkes  to  prepare  men
humane,
$30.48,
Humane  obſeruation  of  time  threefold.
PA
to  their  iulti  fication,
10,14
The  plaine  dealing
of  Turkes  in
privare
bar-
How  our  wotkes  are  ſaid  co  pleaſe  God.  167.31
gaines,(hameth
che  falſe  dealing  of  many  Chi
The  workes  of  the  regenerate  are  mixed  and
finfull,and  inthe  rigour  of  juſtice  delerue  d\:m-
395-39
nation
;  ergo  no  iuſtification
by  workes.  455.
What  the  deſire  of  raine
is?
4937
25
Excuſes  hereof  taken  aw
ibid.  14,8.
The  benehic
of  approouing  of  our  workes.sb.
21
————
wotkes  three  rules.
They  that  haue  receined
gifts
of  God  are
times  moſt  yaine
493.8
a9
3  of  pride  and  vaineglocy.
66.23
Whether
wee may  not  approoue  our  workes
or
375-22
aQtions
to  men,and  if we  may,how
farre  forth.
Of  our  vain  with-Chrift.
13.5.20
tid
as
Infanzs  have  no
workes.
43742  ,
ſpiriruall.
233.18
Jn  what  reſpe&  men  are  (aid  ro  be  one  with
briſt  ?
ibid.  17
nitie  is  not  an  infallible  and  inſeparable  marke
of  the  Church.
139-37
men  were  not  commanded
to  yow,  yet
the  matter  and  forme  of  yowes  was  comman-
be.
491.10
93.39
Vies  that  God  rewardeth  men  according  to  ther
Le.
VO  tag  robe  oy
vc
on
OY  493.9.&c,
are
no
50g.
Thar  workes  are  ſeedes  of  eternal!  life  it is  60ds
recet»
of
0.14
mercic,and
not the  merit  of  the  workes,  498,
The
of  God  cannot  be
18,
Works  of  the  fleſh  perfeQly  enill  &  why.499.  17
The  dererminaion
of  mans  will  by  the  will  of
Good  workes  perfeR  as  they  are  of  God  ,  imper-
Goddoth  aot  abolith  all  freedome  ofill,
feR  as  they  are  of  men.
499-23
1.
Reaſons  why  the  workes  of  the  ſpirit  are  noc che
Man  hath  no  freedome
of  will  in  good  duties
-gule  of
ererr
|  life  as  well  as  bad  workes  are
before  his  conucrlion.
Pe”:  2:
of  cternall  deſtruRion,
rid.  rea  pays  - -
ObieQi=
avs
Page
4%
#5  i
'v
