---
page: 65
pdf_page: 87
sortable_pagination_id: "65"
---
the  Epiitle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.2.
Faultzwemult  take  heed  of  it,and  apply  theeye  of  our  minde  to  a
better  vſe.  Firſt,we  are  to  beſpieszin  reſpe  of  our  owne  (innes  and
corruptions,toſpie  them  out,  Lament.  3.40.  Let  vs  ſcarch  our  wayer,
aud  inquire,and  turne  again  to  the  Lord,  Againe,we  are  to  play  the
5  ſpies,
in  reſpeRt  of  our  (pirituall  enemies,  that  wee  may  tnde  out
the  temptationsof  the
fleſh,  the  world,  and  the  deuill.  Thirdly,
wee  mult  bee  as  ſpies
in  ſearching  outthe  Scriptures,  /obn  5.39,
that  we  may  vnderltand  the  wordes  of  the  Law  of  God,and  knda
comfort  togur  ſoules.
zo
The  thirdandla(t  degree  of  vrging,  is,  that  thefalſe  brethren
ſecke  to  bring
the  ApoiHesm  bondage,  that  is,to  binde  them  toanc-
ceſſary  obſeruation  of  the  ceremoniall  law.  Herelet  vsmarke  the
practiſe  and  pollicie
of  thedivell.  Libertiefrom  ſinne,death,and
he  ceremoniall  law,  is  the  treaſure  of  the  Church  :  andtherfore
15  the  diuell  ſeekes  toouerthrow  it,  by  holding  men  in  ;—
Ve
der  aboliſhed  ceremonies.  Thus  at  this  day,  they
of  the  Popiſh
Church,
are  in  bondage  vader  an  heape  of  humane  Traditions,
beeing  indeed  a  yoke  farre  beauier  then  that  of  the  ceremoniall
law.  Againe,  when  men  profeſle  the  name  of  Chriſt,  the  diuellis
content  with  it  :  and  hee  indeauours  with  all  hismighbt,  every
whereto  bold  tbem  vaderthe  Hondageof  (inne,and  to  hold  them
in  his  ſnare  at  bis  will.
T  hus  vader  the  vame  ot  Chriſtianitic,there
be  ſwarmes  of  Atheiſts,  Epicures  ,  Libertines,  worldlings,  and
prophane  perſons.  At  this  time,  accordipg  toauncient  cultome,
25  wecelebrace  the  memoriall  of  the  birth  ot  Chriſt  :  and  yet  notime
ſo  full  of  diſorder
as  this.  For  the  molt  chat  profeile  Chrill,  take
and  challenge  to  themſelves  ,  alicentious  libertie,  toliue  and  doe
as  they  liſt:  and  this  kind  of  libertie
,  is  flat  bondage.  But  they
that  areſeruants  of  Chriſt  indeed,  ſhould  take  heede  of  this  bon-
40  dage:  For  beeing  free from  ſine they  ſhould  be  ſern.nts  of  nothing  but
righteouſne
ſe,  Romanes  6,  18  T  hey  thatbe  of  acorporation,ltand
for  their  liberties  :  what  a  (ſhame  then  is  it,  that  men  ſhould  love
bondage  ,  and  negle@  the  fpirituall  libertie  ,  which  they  haue
by  Chrilt,
55
Thus  we  (ee,  howthefalſe  brethren  vrged  circumciſion  :.now
let  vs  cometoPant:  refuſall,  The  firlt  point  is,  that  rhey  wowld  not
ine  place  for  anhewre,  It  leemes  they  wererequelted  tovſecircum-
cilion  but  oncey  butthey  would  not  yeeld  ſomuchas  ance,  be-
cauſe  their  ate  would  havetended  tothepreiudice  of  Chriltian
49  libertie  in  all  places.  Here  we  learne  that  we  may  not  v(ethelea(t
ceremoniethatis  in  the  caſc  of  confe(livn,  before  our  adverſaries,
that  is,  when  they  ſceketo  opprelle  the  truth,  by  face,or  by  _
F  9
an
