---
page: 44
pdf_page: 66
---
Chap.I-
4A  Commentarie  pon
54
the  ſame  wombe,  are  brethren:  men  of  the  ſame  bloud  ,  are
brethren  z  Abraham  and  Lot.  Gen.  13.8,  Men  of  the  ſame  coun-
tric  are  brethren,  thus  Sex:  countriemen  are  called  his  brethren,
OT
1.Chros.12.2,  And  [eames  is  called  our  Lords  brother,not  becauſe
he  was  ofthe  ſame  wombe,  but  becaule  he  was  of  the  ſame  bloud
or  kindred:  for  Eize  had  two  daughters,  Marie  eſpouled  to  Toſeph  ,
and  1ſaric  Cleophas,who  afterward  was  maried  to  A/phens  ofwhom
came  [ames  here  mentioned.  /amer  thertore  was  the  colin-german
of  Chrilt.  Therefore  Helvidins  failed  when
he  went  about  toin-
fringethe  perpetuall  virginitie  of  the
virgin  Zarie  out  of  this  ,,
place,as  if  thee  had  more  ſonnes  beſide  Chriſt.  The  third  thiog
is,
what  benefit  James  had  by  becing  the  Lords  brother  ?  Anſwer,
Hee  is  here  called  the  Lords  brother
,fordiltin
tions  ſake
in  reſpet  ofthe  other  [ewes  the  ſonne  of  Zedebews  :  and  this
brothcrhood  doth  not  make  him  the  better
le,  or  the  r;
better  man.  Outward  things  doe  not  commende
vs  to  God.
And  it  isthe  fpirituall  kindred,
by  meanes  of  faith,  and  our  new
birth,  that  bringes  vsinto  favour  with  God  Matthew,  12.49
20  Nowe  the  things  which  1  write,  1  ſpeake  before  God,  1
lie  not.
29
Before  ,  Pa«/hath  auouched  ſundriethiogs  of  himſelfe  :  that
hee  preached  in  Arabia,and  Damaſcus:  that
hee  wentthenceto
Jeruſalem:  that  hee  did  not  learne  the  Goſpell  there  of  Peter,
Temes  ,  Or  any  other  Apoltle,  Nowe  ſome  men  might  happely  ,.
lay,  that  theſeſayings  of
his
are  but  falſe  and  fabulous  avouch-
ments
:  therefore  in  this  verſe  Pax!  defends  himlelfe  ,  and  iufti-
hes  his  ownefayings,  by  a  divine  teſtimony.
The  words  contaive  2.  partes.  An  anſwer  toan  obieftion  con-
cealed,
an  this  manner,  |  may  bee  thought  tolie,  but  indeede  /  ”
{ie  not,  The  ſecond  is,a  confirmation  by  oath,  Before  God  1
ſpeaks
#.  Touching  the  hilt  part,  there  beetwo  pointsto  bee  bandled:
what  isalie?  And  whetheritbea  finneorno?
A  he  u  when  wee  ſpeaks  the  contrarie  to  that
we  thinke  with  an  in-
tention  to  deceine,  More  plainely  ,in  alie  there  bee  foure  things:  ,,  |
the  firlt  is  ,to  avouch  and  affirme  that  which  is  falſe,  T  be  ſecond  is,
toſpeake  with
a  donble  beartyPſal,  18.2,  That  is,  to  ſpeake  again(t
knowledge,and  conſcience,as  when  a  man  faith  that  is  true  which
he  knowes  to  be  falle,or  that  is  falſe,  which  he  knowes  to  bee  true.
This  makesalie,tobealie,andthisdiftinguiſhethan  votruth,from  46
alie.Forhere  it  muſt  beobſerued,  that  a  man  may  ſpeakethat
whichis  falſe,  and  not  lie:  namely  if  heſpeake  that  which  is  falſe,
thinking
