---
page: 68
pdf_page: 90
sortable_pagination_id: "68"
---
A  Commentarie  fon
Chap.2.
to  bim.For  allthis,  though  P*/  apd  the
communicate,any  thing
noterre,  yet  werethey
reſt,  were  led  intoalltruth,  tbat  they  could
of  life,  that  they  could  not  linne.  Paw
notledintoall  holinetle
he  addes,  that  he  cannot
preſent  with  me  but
faith,  ro  will  is
doe  the  good
be  would,  Chrilt  faith  toall  the  Apoſtles  ,  He  rhat  is  waſhed
and  is  all  5
cleane,  muſt  lll  bane  tus  feete  waſhed,  [ob.13.10.  Wherefore  they  are
to  be  rebuked,  that  thiocketheremuſt  bee  no  want  atallin  them
that  are  Preachers  of  the  Gofpell:  and  bercupon  take  occalion  to
deſpiſe  their  Minilterie,  ifthey  can  ſpie  avy  thing  awille  in  their
doings.  Vponthe  ſame  ground,  they  mightreie&  the  Minillerie,  10
ofthe  Apoltles.  For  though  hey  could  not  errein  preaching,
they  had  noneedeto  be  taught  of  any
vziting,  and  though
yet  were  they  not  free  fram  (ingeia  their  lives  ;  and  thechi
them  ſundrie  times  failed,
A  Songs  welearne,tbat  thereisa  good,  andlawfull  kind  of  t  5
boaſting:  and  that  is,  when  a  man  is  diſgraced,&
his  diſgraceis  the
diſhonour
of  God,and  the  diſgrace  ofthe  Goſpel.  This  makes  Pad
hereto  ſay,that  he  /rarned  nothing  of  the  chiefe  Apoſtles,  For  it  hee  had
faid  otherwiſe,he  ſhould
have  bin  reputed  to  beeno  more  but  an
ordinary  diſciple:  &  the  doQrine,which  be  taught  beforethiscon-  26
ference,ſhould  bave  bin  called  in  queſtion.  For  this  cauſc,be  ſtands
vpon  it,that  they  did  not  communicate  any  thiog  vato  him.  Vp-
on  the  like  occalion  he  profetſeth
that  be  will  boaſt.  2.  Cor.1  1,16,
Herethe  ſaying  of  Sa/omo  may  be  obieted,  Let  an  other  man;  month
not  thine  owne,Pron.2.7.2.1  anſwerit  ſuffticeth  for  the  25
praiſe  therzand
be  commonly,ordinarilz,and  vſu-
truth  of  ſundry  A
true,  Thus  ordinarily,  men
they  be  not  generally
ally  wt
arc  not  to  praite  them(elues\:yet  in  a  ſpeciall  &  extraordinarie  caſe,
it  may  be  otherwiſe,
And  the  maner  which  Pa«/  vieth  in  commen-
ding  himſelfe,isto  be  obſerved.  Fir(t,  be  doth  it  in  great  modeſtie:  3?
ſpeaking  of  himſelfe,
becauſein
hee  concealeth  that  part  of  the  ſen-
ſhould  haue  ſerued  to  expreſle  his  praiſe.Secondly,in
rence,which
prailing  of  himſelfc,he  is  not  carried  with  enuie,but  his  care  is,  to
maintaine  the  good  name  ofthereſt  of  the  ApolHes;when  he  faith,
What  they  hae  binyit  ts  no  mitter  to  me,  Here  then  we  ſee,  that  the  A-  35  |
theilts  doe  Pas!  wrong,  whochalleoge  bim  for  pride,&  preſumpti-
on,as  though  he  could  not  brookean  equall,  and  witha)l  skorned
to  learneot  any.  Againe,by  Pax/s  example  weare  totake  noticeot
acommon  linne,  Mens  hearts  are  {o  polle(ſed  with  felfe-loue,  and
they  areſoaddiftid  to  their  own  praile;that  ic  is  griete  tothern,  to  49
heare  avy  praiſed  beſide  themſelues:  whereas  louc  binds  vs  as  wel
to  take  care  for  the  good  name  of  others,
as  of  our  owne,
When
