---
page: 7
pdf_page: 7
---
The  Epiſtle  Dedicatorie.
tarestoo  (imple  and  ſhallow  for  them  to  wade  in,as  not  affording
them  ſufficient  matter  for  their  wits  to  worke  vpon.  Not  conlide-
a  Aon  whillt  they  contemne  the  limplicity  of  the  Scriptures,  &
e  beyond  the  Moone,  inthe  meane  time  with  Thaerthey  tall  x  ;crt.  de  vie
intotheditch  :  and  that  whileſt  chey  {trive  with  the  wings  of  their  PhiloC.  lib,  x
wit  to  ſoareaboue  the  cloudes  of  other  mens  conceyts,  they  linke  in  Thal.
intoaSea  of  abſurditiesand  errors.  Nor  yet  remembring  that  the
Scripture  hath  great  maieſty  ioyned  with  (implicity,  and  as  great
dithculty  mixed  with  plainenelle  and  facility  :  and  therefor:  not
voliclyreſembled  by  S,  Gregorie,to  the  maine  Ocean  in  which  the  Epilt.\:d  Le-
lambe  may  wade  and  the  Etephant  may  ſwimme,  For  the  ſpirit  of  224.
God  hath.ia  wonderfull  wiſdome  lo  tempered  the  Scriptures,  that
they  are  both  obſcure  and  perſpicuous\:in  ſome  places  like  a  claſped
Or  /ealed  bookeslſay.29.11.  inotherplaces
like  a  books  rhut  i  opened,
Apoc,5.5.being  both  eefie  and  difficu/r,  Eafie,in  that  the  entrance  tmto
the  merd,gineth
light  and  vaderſtanding  to  the  ſimple,  Pſal.119.  130.
Diffienlt,  in  that  ſome  things  are  hard  to  bee  onderſtosd,  2,  Peter.;.
16.  and  hard  to  bee  interpreted,  Hebrewer  5.11.Eafje,  toinvitevs  to
reade  andlearnethem  :  Dsfficuit;o  exerciſe  vs  let  weſhould  con-
t\:mnethem.From  theralicand  plaine  places  are  gathered  princi-
ples  of  religion,  both  articles  of  taith  and  rules  of  good  life,  which
weecall  Catechiſmes.  T  he  difficult  places  require  interpretation,
and  the  Commentaries  of  the  learned.  Both  which  are  neceiſa-
rie  in  the  Church  of  God.
Catechiſmre;  have  2  neceilaric  vic,
both  in-regard  of  the  fimple,  who  areto  bee  feddewith  milk,
beciag  butbabes
in  Chrift  :  and  of  the  learned  who  are  (trong
men  in  Chrilt,  that  they  may  haue  ſome  rule  ,  whereby  to
trie  the  ſpicits,  conſonant  to  the  Analogie  of  faith,and  doarine
of  the  Orthodoxe  Fathers  of  ORIW  which  _  calleth
wt
Theforme  of  knowledge.  Rom.2.20.  a
me  of
ior,  Rows,  one.
6.17»  =
4  paterne
ds,  A—_  13.  which  formes  +=»  14  eye.
of  doftrine  were  in  vſe  in  the  primitive  Church  inthe  ApolHes  222
dayes,as  it  is  manifeſt,
Heb.6.4.  wherethe  Apoltle  ſets  downe  the
principallpoints
of  the  Catechiſme,  calling  them  the  dotirme  of
the  beginning  of  Chrift.  And  after  the  Apoliles,  we  finde  that  they
wcre  vied  by  the  learned  Fathers,  both  of  the  Greekeand  Latine
Church.  Clement  Alex,  had  his  Pedagogue.  Cyrilof  Jeruſalem  bis
Catechiſme  and  My  (tagog.  books.  Orgen(that  famous  Catechift)
his  *  bookes  of  principles.7beodorer  his  Epitome  lelwr  I5)rwy.  Lee  *ayidggn,
clawin  his  Inſtitutions,  Auguſtine  his  Enchiridion.  Huge  de  $.J  tore
his  booksot  the  Sacraments,or  mylteries  ofchriſtian  religion.  And
K  weregreatly  to  bee  wiſhed,  that  as  in  otherreformed
Churches
A  3
beyoad
