---
page: 70
pdf_page: 92
sortable_pagination_id: "70"
---
Chap.2.
A  Commentarie  wp0n
78
to  bim.For  allthis,  though  Pa!  and  the
communicate,any  thing
reſt,  were  ed  intoalltruth,  that  they  could  not  erre,  yet  werethey
notledintoall  holineſle
of  life,  that  they  could  not  linne.  Paw
faith,  to  will  is  preſent  with  me;  but  he  addes,  that  he  cannot  doe the  good
and  is  alt
be  would,  Chrilt  ſaith  toall  the  Apoſtles  ,  He  that  is  waſhed
cleane,  muſt  ſlill  bane  is  feete  waſhed,  Tob.13.10.  Wherefore  they  are
to  berebuked,  that  thinketheremuſt  bee  no  want  atallin  them
that  are  Preachers  of  the  Gofpell:  and  bercupon  take  occalion  to
deſpiletheir  Minilterie,  ifthey  can  (pie  avy  thing  awille  in  their
Vponthe  ſame  ground,  they  mightreie  the  Minilterie,  10
doings.
ofthe  Apoſtles.  For  though  hey  could  not  errein  preaching,
vziting,  and  _  they
had  noneedeto  be  taught  of  any
yet  were  they  not  treefrom  (inneia  their lives  ;  and  thee
them  {undrie  times  failed,
A  O_—_  welearne;thatthereisa  good,  andlawfull  kind  of  t  5
boaſting:  and  that  is,  when  a  man  is  diſgraced,&  his  diſgraceis  the
diſhonourof  God,and  the  diſgrace  ofthe  Goſpel.  This  makes  Parl
hereto  (ay,that  be  /rarned  nothing  of  the  chiefe  Apoſtles,  For  if  hee  had
faid  otherwiſe,he  ſhould  have  bin  reputed  to  bee  no  more  but  an
ordinary  diſciple:  &  the  doRtrine,which  be  taught  beforethiscon-  24
ference,ſhould  have  bin  called  in  queſtion.  For  this  cauſe,
be  ſtands
vpon  it,that  they  did  not  communicate  any  thiog  vato  him.  Vp-
on  the  like  occalion  he  profetſeth  that  be  will  boaſt.  2.  Cor.41.16,
Herethe  ſaying  of  Sa/omo  may  be  obieted,  Let  an  other  wan;  month
praiſe  thee,and  not  thine  owne,Pron.2  7.2.1  anſweryit  ſufficeth  for  the  25
truth  of  ſundry  proverbs,ifthey  be  commonly,ordinarilz,and  vſu-
ally  true,though
they  be  not  generally
true,  Thus  ordinarily,  men
2  ogy.
arc  not  to  praite  them(elues\:yet  in  a  ſpeciall  &  extraordinarie  caſe,
it  may  be  otherwiſe,
And  the  maner  which  P:/viethin  commen-
ding  himlelfe,isto  be  obſerved.  Firſt,  be  doth  it  in  great  modeſtie:  3?
becauſeinſpeaking  of  himſelfe,
hee  concealeth  that  part  of  the  ſen-
rence,which  ſhould  have  ſerued  to  expretle  bis  praile.Secondly,in
prailing  of  himſelfc,he  is  not  carried  with  enuie,but  his  care  is,  to
maintainethe  good  name  ofthereſt  of  the  ApolHes;when  he  faith,
What  they  hane  binyit  is  no  mitter  to  me,  Here  then  we  ſee,  that  the  A-  35
theilts  doe  Pas!  wrong,whochalleoge  bim  for  pride,&  preſumpti-
on,asthough  he  could  not  brookean  equall,  and  witha)l  +korned
St
Eat
bo..
DG
dia,
am
LD
toJearneotany,  Againe,by  Pax/s  exampleweare  totake  notice  of
acommon  linne,  Mens  bearts  are  (o  potle(ſed  with  (elfe-loue,  and
they  areſoaddiftid  to  their  own  praile,that  ic  is  griete  tothem,  to  49
heare  any  praiſed  beſide  themſelues:  whereas  louc  binds  ys  as  wel
to  take  care  for  the  good  name  of  others,  as  of  our  owne,
When
