---
page: 72
pdf_page: 94
sortable_pagination_id: "72"
---
Chap.  2-
A  Commentarie
pon
80
of  ſfinne,  Marks  12,14,  andall  belecuers,
ing
andin  the
who  arenot  to  havereligion  in  acceptation
of  perſons,/ewes  12,1,
This  acceptation  is  the  ruine
of  ſocieties.  Andit  is  the  common
fault.  For  vſually  elefionsare  made,offices  beltowed,and  iultice
executed  with  partialitie,and  with  blinde  reſpeRs  to  countrey,kin-  5
red,friend(hip,money,
Secondly  ,  wee  are  all  taught  to  feare  the  iudgement  of  God,
and  to  prepare  our  ſelues  with  all  diligence;that  wee  may  be  tound
worthy  to  [tand  before  God  in  that  great  day.  For  we  mult  come
naked  before  him,  and  hee  will  baue  noreſpeR  to  our  birth,  our  iv  |
riches,our  learning.  Therefore  it  is  good  for  vs  now
to  put  on
ES  For  with  him  the  Father  |
CO
is  w
Thirdly,  we  may  not  ſet  our  hearts
the  outward  things  of
this  world  :  becaute
God  doeth  not
a  vs  for  them,  But  wee  15
are  carnelilyto  ſeeke  after  the  things  that
make
vs  accepted  with
ny
Godzas  true  faith.righteouſne(ſe,and
good  conſcienceMow.  14.17,
Againe,  ſuperiours  mult  bee  admoniſhed  to  deale  moderately
with  their
inferiours,  Colofſ.  2.11.  Againe  interiours  are  to  com-
fort  themlelnes,if  they  be  opprelled  :  in  that  God  the  Iudge
of  all  #4
accepts  no  perſons.
Lally,  heere  weelearne,  that  when  wee  ſhall  have  immediate  |
fellowſhip
with  God  in  heaven  ,  all  ootward  reſpe  of  perſons
*#
ſhall  ceaſe.  God  himſelfe,
and  the  Lambe  Chri(}  leſus  ſhall  bee  all  *
inalltotheEleR,
"5  ©
ln  the  ende  of  the  verſe  Par  addes  :  For  they  communicated  us.  |
thing  to  mee:  but  to  the  contrary,  Kew.  1,  12,  may  bee  obieRed.
Where  Pax{delires  to  come  to  Rome,  that  he  mght  bee  comforted  by  l
their  mutuall
faub  both  his  and  thews.  Anſwer.  Though  the  Apoltles
did  communicatenothipg  to  Pax,  inreſpeRt  of  dorine,or  iudg-  3?  |
ment;  yet  mightthey,  or  the  meaneſt  beleeuers  conferre  ſome-
thing  vato  him  in  reſpe&  of  comfort,  or  the  confirmation  of  his
faith;  and  thus  much  hee  lignifieth  tothe  Romanes.  Heere  is  a
good  [rem  for  them  that  come  to  no  Sermons,  becauſe  they
*'
can  learne  nothing.  Put  the  caſethey  were  as  learned  as  the  A  pO-  35
{tles,  yet  might  they  profitin  heariog,reſpeR
of  comfort,of  faith,
and  good  attection.  :
7  But  on  the  contrary,  when  they  ſaw  that  the  Goſpell  over
the  oncircumciſion  was  committed  unto  me,  as  the  Goſj  pel  ower  ,,  |
the  circumciſion  was  to  Peter  :
8  (For  he  that  was  mightie  by  Peter  is  the  Apoitleſhip  over
the
