---
page: 75
pdf_page: 97
sortable_pagination_id: "75"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatins.
Chap.2.
33
Againezitis  to  bee  obſcruedin  this  text,that  Iumes,  Peter,  Tobn,
aremadeequall,  all  beciog  pillars  z  and  /amer  is  firft  named  :  awd
that  not  without  cauſe.  For  not  Peter,  but  Jawes  was  the  Pre-
fident  of  the  Councell
of  leruſalem  :  becauſe  hee  ſpake  the  laſt,
and  concludeded  all,  eAes,  15.13.  Therefore  the  firſt  naming
of  Peter,  in  other  places  of  Scripture,  is  no  (athicient  proofe  of
his  lupremacie.
has
NN  +
D086
200
Thirdly,  Peter  heere  is{aid  to  make  a  conevant  with  Paxl,  that
bee  ſhall  bee  the  Apoitle  of  the  Gentiles,  and  Peter  of  the  ewes,  |
But  it
10  Peter  had  been  bead  of  the  Church  for  tourteene  yeares  together,
and  had  but  knowewtheprimacie  which  che  Papilts  give  tohim,
hee  would
not  have  confented
to  this  order:  .
It  is  aHeariged,  that
Paxl.  was  the  chiefe  Apo(tle  ouerthe  i3etriles;in  refpetof\:paines
and  labour,  and  not  in  reſpet  of  jaziſdiction.  1  anſwere,,  this
15  diltiaQtion  hath  noground  in  the-word  of  God.  Againe  ,*Paw
was  an  Apoſtle,and  vicd  his  Apoltolicall  authoritie  over  the  Gen-
tiles  :  and  thereiyno&cwlefiatticalt  perfon  that  is,  orcan  bee  aboue
an  Apoſtle.  For  hee  was  lirmply  to  babelceved  in  preathing  and
writing,  and  had  extraordinary  powet  giuen  him  by  God;to  pu-
20  niſh  chem  that  rebelled.  -
Againe,  Pas!  here  faith  ,  that  tbe  Goſpel  was  commuted  to  bins  and
Peter,that  is;thatthey  were  putid  traltwithit.  Hence  welearne  3.
things;The
firſt  chat  the  Gotpel  4s  not  ours,
but  Gods;  &  that  men
are  butthe  kepers  of  it.  Far  this  weare  ta  praiſe  God.  Thefecond
25  js,thatthe  minilers
of  the  wordate  torkeepe  and  maintaine  the
truth  of  it  with  all  faithfulgetle
andgood  conſcience  tand  further,
toapply  it  to  the  be(ivic,  and  tothegreatelt  good  of
cen.  corthis
charge  ties  vporrhemrbatarepur:1
|  T  he  third.ty  that  the
Goſpetis  aſpecialtieafure.!
is\TimEngland
arcto  gjue  voto
30  God  all  thaukfulnetleſpecially,by  briogiong  torth  tho  fruits  of  the
Goſpel.  lo  this  dutie  the  molt  of  vs  comme  ſhort  :  and  therefore  we
may  iofily  feareleft  God  take  from  vsthe  Golpcl  of
life,and  giue  it
G#  AP
i  da
*.
th
Altaliich
ah,
At.
be
to  2
nation  that  will  britg  forth
the  fryic
of  it.
Moreover,inthat  P  au{faitb;that\:God  was
pragh  ty  by  bim  and  Peter
35  tothe  lewer  and  Gentiler,  wearets  conlidertbeetticacy  of  the  Mini-
ſtery.  Of  itthree  cavtionsaretobe  obſerved.  T  be  hrlt,that  grace
orpowerto  regenerate  ,'is  net  included  in  the  word  preached,as
vertueto  heale  in  a  medicine.  Paw/faith,  He  that  pfanteth;and  be  ow
wit  rethigenet
any
thimp/2.  Cort;  7:  Toregenetetiiaatiig  proper  wor
49  of  Gvd,nor  en  Angels;nonorto  the  fant
Cha  ll,  cxal-
teI'aboye  men  and  Angels,  For  the  vertue  to  fenews  or  regene-
xate;is  notin  itas  inafubict,  butinthe  Godhead  of  the  vogue.
TH
