---
page: 76
pdf_page: 98
sortable_pagination_id: "76"
---
48
Chap.2.
»  A  Commentarie
pon
The  ſecond  cautionis,  that  grace
is  not  inſeparably  annexed,
and
,  to  the  word  preached,
for  to  ſomeit  is  the  {auour
oft  death;to
h.  The  tbird  is,  that  thepreacbing  of  the  word  is  ao  externall
inlNcument  of  faith,  and  regeneration:  and  the  proper  effeR  ofir,
isto  declare,
or  (ignific,  Andit  is  an  inCrument:  becauſe  when  5
the  Miniſters  ofthe  word,  doe  by  it  (igoibe  and  declare,  what  isto
be  done,  and  what
is  the  willof  God,  the  ſpirit  of  God  iowardly
-inligbtens  the  minde,  andinclines  the  heart  to  belecue,and  obey,
\.Hencewe  learne
that  itis  a
magicall  fition,  to  ſuppole
that  five
words,  For  this  is  my  bodie,  ſhould  tranſubllantiatethe  bread,  into  19
the  bodice  of  Chriſt.  Secondly  we  learne;  that  the  Sacraments
doe
not  cooferre  grace,  cx  opere  operate,by  the  worke  done,  Forthe  word
and  Sacraments,  are  both  of  onenature(Sacraments
becing  a  vili-
_  CLONES  will
=  Thirdly  by  this
grace,
t  15
appeares,
that  charmes  or  ſpels,  have  not  force
in  them
to  curedi-
ſcaſes,and  to  worke  wonders,  but  by  ſatanicall  operation.  For  the
be(t  word  of  all;,cuenthe
word  preached,  bath  it  not.  Laſtly,
were
hereto  beepatin  mind,  that  wee  looſe  no  timein  hearing  of  the
word;for  it  is  a  meanes
we  are  cleanſed  and  renewed.
E-  14
wery  branch  that  brangeth  forth  fruute,God  purgethut  by  his  word  and  0-
ther  meancs,hat
ir  may  briug
forth  more  frune,  loh.15.
Itis  athing  tobe
that  the  Apoſtles  at  lecaſalem
ac-
knowledged  Paw/to  bean  Apoltle
becauſe  he  had  thegifts
ofan
Apolile,and  becauſe
his  miniſterie  was
among
the Gen  15
tiles.  Therefore,  they  which  have  the  gift  ofteaching,  by  wbome
edi
WV
CE  nn  en
con-
demae  the  miniſterieofthe
Church  of
34
Li,  good
life,  Edizdnriocalledot  laws:  7h  chovioraxtbeſemesef  3
Iſrael
King.13.4.  Andthe  Church  of  God  vpon  earth,  is  called
the  Pullar  and  ground
of  with,  in  reſpet  of  the  Minilteric  of  the
word.1.,Tim.z.49;
Fy
Againe,
in  thaeallMiniljersia  their  places+(accordiag'to.  the
meature
of  gifts  rectived)  are
prilar:,
they  are
iſhed
hereby
48
to  be  conltant  in  the  truth,again(t
all  enemies  whatſocuer.
[tis  the
praile
of  ob»  the  Baptiſt,  thathe  was  not  a«  arecd  ſoaken  of  the  windeg
CAarth.
