---
page: 77
pdf_page: 99
sortable_pagination_id: "77"
---
the  Epiftle
to  the  Galatians,
Chap.2.
Matth.11,7,  All  beleeuersareto  (land  faſt  in  tewptation,  again(t
their  {pirituall  enemies,  Zph.6.13.andthis  tbey  ſhal  the  better  doe,
it  they  bee  diceRted  by  the  good  example  oftheir  teachers.
T  birdly,in  that  Miniſters  are  pi/trs,  we  are  taught  to  cleave  vn-
5  to  —  their  memory  —  life  and  death.  For  wee
arc
5  in  the  temple  of  G
[t
is  our  fowndation,and
be  la
to  holdvs  vp:&  thereforenotto  beforſaken,Dear.1  -
Furibermore,  Paw/at  this  time  was  not  accounted  a  pillarzfor
he
faith  thus:  James,  Cephas,/obn,are  accounted  pillars,  as  who  ſhold  fay,
20  1  am  accounted  none,  T  hus  P«s/goes  through  goodrepdrt,  and
euillreport,andis  content
to  be  contemned.
Laſtly,the  example  of  coacordamong  the  Apoltles  is  to  be  ob-
ſerued:  in  that  they  giuetheright  hands  of  tellowſhip  oneto  an-
1o  Warning
onely  that  we  ſhould  remember
the  poore:-which-
thing  alſo  1  was  diligent  to  doe.
In  theſe  words,  P  a«/  ſets  downe  the  fourth  and  laſt  (igne  of  bis  -
approbation  at  leruſalem,on  this  manner,  At  my  departing  the
20  Apollles  warned  metoremember  the
poore,and  of  no  other  thing
did  they  giue  me  warning:  therefore
there  was  a  full  and  perfect
conſent  betweene  vs.
In  the  wordes,  two  things  are  ſet  downe,  the  Apoſtolicall  war-
ping,  andthe
praQiife  of  it  by  Ps/.  The  warning  io  theſe  words,
25  [Warning  only that  we  ſhould  remember  the  poore,
||  ther  three  points
areto  be  conſidered,
T  he  firſt;that  the  Church  of  leruſalem  was  ia
extreame  pouertie,  And  the  cauſes
of  it  may  be  two.  The  belt,  be-
cauſe  the  poorer  ſort  received  the  Goſpel:  thus  it  wasin  Corinths1.
Cor.1,26,N
ot  many  wiſe  accordingto  the
fleſh,.  not  many  neble.  T  he  like
3+  haue  weinexperience  atthis  day:  the  poorer  ſort  among  vsdoe
more  heartily  receive  it  then  they  of  the  richer  ſort.  By  this  we  are
taught,  that  wee  may  pot  fixe  our  love,  and  our  confidence  vpon
riches:  and  they  that  buie,mult  be  as  though  they  bought  notzand
they  that  polleiſe,  as  though  they  polleiled  not.
Becauſeriches
a5  ſtealeaway  the  heart.  The  ſecond  cauſeof  their  pouertie  was,  that
they  were  deprixed  of  their  richer  for  the  profe  fſion  of  the  name  of  Chriſt.
1.Theſ.2.14.  Heb.10,34.  Here  we  aretaught  to  (it  downe,  and  to
recken  what  the  profeſſion  of  Chriſt  will  colt  vs  to  thevttermolt  :
and  we  mult  pat  this  in  our  accouat,that  we  mult  bee  rcadie,  and
40  Willing  topart  with  thedeareſi
things  in  the  world,  for  the  name.
of  Chriſt.  Andthis  reckniog  and  refolution  mult  wee  daily  carrie
about  with  vs..  .
The
