---
page: 78
pdf_page: 100
sortable_pagination_id: "78"
---
Chap.  2+
ACommentarie
pon
|  Theſecond  point  is,  Why  the  Church  of  ſeruſalem  moſt  beere,
lecued  by  the  Gentiles,contidering  by  Godslaw  Dewt.  1  5.1  1.euery
place  muſtrelecue  his  owne  poore.  An/.We  are  firlt  of  all,debtersty
ovr  owne  poore,  and  they  mult  tirlt  bereleeued  :  this  done  (in
the  caſcatextreme  nece(litie)  weare  debters  to  the  poote  a  thoy.  5
ſand  miles  off.  Andin  this  caſe,  did  the  Apoſtles  crave  releefe  of
the  Geatiles,  for  them  of  lerufalem.
01  vl
5d
T  hethird  pointis;that  the  Apoliles  themſelues  arecarefoll  for
thegatheringoofreleefe.  Hence  wee  learne,  that  it  is  the  officeof
Paſtoursand
teachers,  not  only  topreach  and  diſpence  the  word,  iq
but  alſoto  haue  care  of  the  poore:
and  this  care  is  to  be'  ſhewedia
exhoctarion,counſell,  oucrlight.  As  forthe  adminiltratioo  and  ex-
ecution  of  matters
belonging
to  the  poore,it  belongs  to  others,  lf
the  Apoſtles  at  any  time  gathered,carried,
and  diſpenſed  releefe,  it
was  becauſe  the  Church  was  not  yet  founded,  and  planted,  and  ig
eherefore  there  was  no  other  to  doe  it.
_—
Now  I  cometothe  praQtiſe  of  Paul,  in  theſe  words;  hich  thi
alſo  I  wat  diligemt  to  doc  it,  Here  firſt  let  vs  marke  ,  that  Pax/who
ſpoiled  and  ma1ehauocke  ofthe  Church  of  leruſalem,  now  gi-
s  relecte,
(and  aswefay)  beyges  tor  it,and  no  doubt,  the  ra-  21
ther  that  hee  may  makeſomerecompencefor  the  wrong  hee had  ©
done.  By  his  example  wee  are  taught  to  make  SatisfaRtion  forall
inivries.  and  hyrts  doneto  others,  and  thattothe  vrtermoſt,  Hee
eh
went
that  ſteales,  according  tothe  qualitie  of  his  theft,  mult  reſtote  &-
ther  twofold,  or  fouretold,  Exod.2  2.7,  hethat  maimes  a  mannull  y;#
pay  for  his  bealing,
and  for  bis
reſting,
that  is,  for  the  lolle
of  his  labour
Exod.11;19  Damiel  ſaith  to  Nebrcbadrez.uur,  O  King,  breaks
off  thy
ſinnes  with  almes  deeder,Dan.4.24.  thatis,  whereasthou  haft  bin
ven  to  cruettie,and  oppre(ſion,ceafe  todoe  ſo  any  more,  and
ſome  recompence  by
giaing  ofalmes.  Dad  {aith,it  is  the
ofa  wikakngs  fam  >  torepay,  Pſal.;7.21.  Satiefattion  "|
recompence,  andreſtitution,is  theway  tolite  by  the  appointment  *
of  God  Zzech.18.7.and  3  3.15.  If  thou  reſtore  the  pledge,  and  ripty  |
that  which  thou  haſt  robbed,  thou  ſpalt  lmue,and  not  die,  T  he  Lord  faith,
Are  the  trea{ures  of  witkedre;  yet  in  the  houſe  of  the  wicked?  8  he  addes,  i;
that  be  will  not  inftifis  the  falſe  ballance,  Mich.  6.10,11,  Zachensin  his
Lo
conuerlion,  for  knowen  wrongs  reſtores  fourefold\:and  for  his  ve-
known  wrongs  he  giues  halfe  his  goodsto  thepoore.  Lvk.19  7.
Let  vſurers,ingrotlers,and  all  that  oppreſſe,or  deale  deceitfully,
remember  this;and  beginto  make  conſcience  of  this  duty  of  $
tisfation,orrellitution.  Aud  that  it  may  the  better  bee  practiſed,
|  will  further  ſet  downe  five  points,
Tho
