---
page: 8
pdf_page: 8
---
The  Epiſtle  Dedicatorie.”
beyond  the  Sea,they  haueafet  Catechiſme  whichall  men  follow,
andinthe  Church  of  Rome  one  approvucd  by  the  Councell  of
Trent  :  ſo  therewerean  vniforme  Catechiſme  inioyned  by  pub-
licke  authorityto  bevied  in  all  Familics,Schooles,  and  Chorches
ia  this  land;that  weight  all  with  one  mindand  onemouth,iudge
and  ſpeake  the  ſame  thing.
Now  as  Catechs/a1-s  ga:  hered  outof  plaine  and  eaſie  places  are
necellary,torthe  S_  ;  ſo  Commentaries  areas  neceilary
for  the
vnder(tanding  of  ſuch
places  as  aremoreabſtraſeand  dithcule.  Our
Savipar  Chrilt(the  great  Docorot
the  Churgh)hath
by  his  owne
pracilegiuen  ys  apreſident  hereot  inexpoundingthelaw,  Math.s.
in  xpounding  all  hard  parables  tohis  diſciples  apart  -  for  therext
faith,tbat  he  v#foldedor  expounded  themumorhem  Aurk,  4.33.1  hat
he  interprotedunto  them  in  all  the
ſeripenres  the  thing;  which  were  written
8  tpalun
ys.
of  him.  Luk,24:127,T  tiathe  evened
onto  'tham  the  (criptares,  vi32,  And
$ardrp,
they  bhaue  big  alwaies  ſoaccountedin  the  Churchof  God,  Forthe
lewes(ay  we  kgqow)bad  their  Perwſormy  the  Greeke  church  their
Scholiathe  Latine  Church  their  Glaſſzs,with  other  Paraphraſes,  &
E  xpo(itions.  Neither  was  itever
caled
itt  queltion
by  any, ſave  by
the  tagtaGicall  Anabaptiſts,who  relt
reve?
Sle\:danlib,  6,
lations\:And  (amepreiudicateP
api
the:  conſent  of  alt
Coſter,  Ench.
Catholikes
to  be  therrue  Scripture,
boththe  g/oſſe,and  the  texrz  the
controucr(.c.l
written-wvord,hat
inky  Diviai
a  dead  letter.
And  certaine
ar-
rogant{pirits  who  with  Nefforwrskornetorcadeany  loterpreters.
Socrulib.7,
But  bow  Comimnentatics
to  be  watten,
'  tis nor  ſo  rake
to
cap.
3  2.
$s  welkin
of  themnannet
4  MBs
Te
Mi
III
*  i
make
recommending
cxcell  in  the  LAGER  aIRER  Allegorica!},  Axabro/e  in  the  A-
nagogicallChry/oftowein  the.  Jo
#1  vas  ea
way
doe  core  hn
dhnonten  rdfadd
1etootediousasthe
two
Sret.  SenenC.
A/phonſs,  Toſtarns  and  Salmrren,whovpon
every  fmall  occalion  di-
T1  pref.c.in
gcelle  from  thetexty
or  tathertake  occalion  to  corer  ivto  inhnite
Bib,
tr1volous  queſtions
hich  breeder  ftriforatber  then  poaly  edfying  which
1.  Tim.  1.4
43  faxb.  bor  there  ignctfoſbort  aChapteriothe  Bible;vpo  which
abouerſptir{tort  que  ions  \:wherevpoa
Sixr.Sen.  Bibl,  the  tormer  moouuthinat:
lib.4.
his  volumes  grow  to  thyt
biguetie;that
one  contraRting  his  Com:
mentary  vpyns.  Haranddrawing  it-into  an  Epitome,  yet  could
ParusXime
not  foabricgeit,but  that  itcontained-aboue's  thouland  ipages  1
nes  Evilc.
faba  ra  the  largeſt  vo/umey&  fmallett  character,
Þ  bc  orheris  to  ſhore
Cautien,
vdslt  iais-1  2  yolucocsvpenthezuangdlitts,
that  he  might  well haue
DAOYS
contra-
