---
page: 80
pdf_page: 102
sortable_pagination_id: "80"
---
Chap.2»
4  Commentarievpon
88
Againe;in  Pauls  praQtiſe
an  carnell  care  and  diligence  to
provide  for  the  paore,  And-M
diligence  is  further  expretſed,
Remanes  15.25,28,  where  it  isfaid,  that  hee  miniftred  tothe  Saints
at  leruſelem,  and  withall  that  he  gaue  himſelfeno  reſtinthis  du-
tic,tilibgbad  /+:/ed  this  fruute  vntorhem,  that  is,till  hee  ſaw  it  done  ©
accordiog  to  his  deſire,  His  example  mult  bee  followed  of  vs.
It  is  not  enough  for  vs  rogiuegood  wordes,  and  to  wiſh  well,  but
wee  mult  in  our  places  and  callings  doe  our  endeauour,  that  re-
liefe  may  euen  bee  ſealed  to  our  poore.  And  there  bee  many
rcaſoos  tomoonevys.  Firſt,  let  vs  conſider  thatthe  charge  was  ve-  10
ry  great,to  maintainethe  Altarof  the  Lordinthbe  old  Teſtament
with
and  oxen,  and  offrings  of  all  kindes:  and  now
in  the
new  Teſtament  the  poore  come  in  the  roome  of  the  Altar.  Se-
condly,  the  poore  repreſent  the  perſon  of  Chriſt,  andinthem  he
comes  vnto  vs  and
ſaith,  /  am  bungrie,  I  am  ſicke,  1  amnaked,  1  am  15
bartowrleſſe  :  therefore  looke  what  wee  would  doe  to  Chriſt,  the
ſame  muſt  wedoe  tothern,  wo
ns  94  per
havetitle  and  in-
terelt  to  part  of  our  goods:  for130d  is  the  Lord  of  them,  and  wee
are  but  ſtewards  to  diſpoſe  and  vic  ther,  according  to  his  a
pointment.  And  his  willis,that  part  of  our  goods  bee  given
for,  26
the  reliefe  of  the  poore-.  If  this  bee  not  done,  wee  are  theeves  in
reſpeR  of  the  goods  we  polletle.  Laftly,  mercie,  or  the  bowels
of  compaſſion  in  vs,  is  a  pledge  or  an  impreſſion  of  the  mercie
that  isin  God  towards  vs:  and  by  it  we  may  know,or  feele  in  our
ſelues,  that  mercie  belongs  vato  vs.  Thus  we  ſee  what  is  our  du-  25
tie:  powlet  vs  conſider  what  js  ourfault,  Not  to  blameany  per-
ſon  orperſons,  itis  our  common  fault,  that  we  are  backward  and
ſlacke  in  this  dutie,  And  the  cauſe
is,  that  wedoe  not  heartily
give  ourſelues  to  Chriſt:  and  this  makes  vsto  be  fo  ſlack  in  giving
our  goods  tothe
3,  Cor.9.5.  Againe,wecommonly  live  (asit  ,g
were)  without  a  law.  Wee  doe  not  with  Dania,  let  the  lawes  of
God  before  vs,  7/a/.119.  v.168,  Neitherdoe
we  apply  our  hearts
to  his  (tatutes,  v.112.  Forthen  would  we  with  Dazid,  make  hiſt
10  keepe  the  commandements  of  Godyverl.  68,  ſpecially  this  great  com-
mandement  of  reliete  :  andthe  rather,  becaulc  the  obſerying  of  it  ;  5:
is  the  ioriching  of  vs  all
Laſtly,  let  vs  marke,  that  Paw  being  warned  of  the  Apollles,
was  diligent  to  doe  that  wherof  he  was  warned,  T  he  hke  mult  we
doe.  lt  isnot  ſufficient  to  hearezbut  belides  this;theremull  be  in
vsa  carc  and  diligence  to  doand  praQtile  that  which  we  heare.  For  4+
this  is  to  build  vpon  therocke.  And  itisa  common  fault;to  beare
muchb,agddoeclittle,Ez\:cb.3  3.24,
11.  And
