---
page: 81
pdf_page: 103
sortable_pagination_id: "81"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.2.
11  And  when  Peter  was  come  ts  Antioch,  1  withitood  him,
to  his  face  :  for  he  was  to  be  blamed.
In  theſe  words  Pas/  propoundsthe  ſecond  anſwer,  which  hee
5  makesto  theobieRtion  mentioned  inthe
beginning  of  the  cbap-
ter;tothis  effet,  Though  the  Church  glorite  God  for  thee  :  yet
willnotthe  Apoſtles  doe  it  :  becauſe  thou  art  contrary  to  them,
Here  Pa«/anſ{wers;that  there  wasindeeda  diflention  between  him
and  Peter,when  he  with{tood  Peter  to  his  face  at  Antioch:  but  the
10  faule  was  not  his,  but  Peters,  who  was  wholly
ro  be  blamed.
For  the  better  vnderſtanding  of  theſe  words,three  points  are  to
be  handled.  The  firſt  is,  whowas  reliſted?  The  anſwer  is,Peter  the
Apollle.  For  the  intent  of  this  chapter  isfo  hew  what  agreement
there  was  betweene  Pas/  and  therelt  of  the  Apoſtles.  Andchere
x5  Was  n0  Apoſtle  of  thisname  but  one.  Therefore  they  among  the
Ancient  are  greatly  deceived,  who  thinke  that  the  Apoſtle  Perer
was  not  reprooued,,  but  ſome  other  of  that  name.  The  ſecond
point  is,whoreſilted  ?  Anſwer.  Paw:  and  that  not  for  ſhew  and  fa-
ſhion,but  in  truth  and  good  carne(},  And  thisappeares,  becauſe  in
20  the  words  following,  be  ſets  downe  a  weightie  and  vrgent  cauſe  of
his  reproofe.  Therefore  /erom-  and  others  are  deceiued  ,  who
thinke  that  Paw/  reprooued  Peter
*  in  ſhew  and  appearance,  and  not  *  Simulate,
in  goodearnelt,  The  third  point  is,what  was  Par:  mind  and  mea.  297  ver  e,
ning  in  reliſting  of  Peter  ?  Anſwer,  Todoe  his  office.  The  kingdom
25  of
God,  andalithings  pertaining  thereto,  mult  haue  freepallage
without  reſiſtance.  T  he  ſecond  petition  is;  Thy  kingdome  come,  lobu
the  B  aptift
preached  thus,  Prepare  the  way  of  the  Lord,  and  makes  bis
path;  flraight,  Mar.  1.  Saint  Pa«l  ſaith,  Pray  that  the  wordof  God
baze  freepaſage,  &be  glorified,2.T,  beſſ.3.1.Contrariwile,ſuch  th  ings
3e  aShinderthe  k1ingdome  of  God  mult  bee  withſtood.  Therefore
Peter  (aith,Refift  your  adwerſarie  the  dimell,  ſtrong  in  fauth1,  Peter  5.5.
And  thus  men  chat  are  in{truments  of  euill,  are  to  bee  with(lood.
And  here  Pavlby  an  holy  reproote,  withltands  Peter  for  his  bad
example.
In  Pas/  here  firſt  we  may  behold  an  example  of  true  vertue,  in
that  bereliſts  evil  to  thevttermolt  of  his  power,  following  his  own
rule,  Abborretbat  which
is  ext},  and  cleane  vnto  that  which  i;  goody  om,
12.9.  Havens  fellowſhip  with  the  unfraitfull  workes  of  darkneſſe,but  ra-
ther  reprooze  then,  Epheſ.5,11,  In  like  manuer  mult  every  one  of
40  vsrelilt  euill;  firſt;in  himſelfe,  and  then  in  them  that  appertaineto
him.  Therfore  Pas!  faith  to  all,  Pwr  on  the  armonr  of  G  od,  that  yemay
re,  Epheſc,6,13,  Here  twothings  may  be  demanded  :  firlt,  whar
mf
G  2
