---
page: 60
pdf_page: 82
---
Chap.2:
A  Commntarie
pon  ©
79
impoſed  a  neceſſitieypon
vs:  then  and  Tims  refaſed:  and the
Apollles  did  not  vrge  me  to  circumciſe  him.
Hereit  may  be  demanded,  how-  this  text  can  well  ſtand  with
A,  15.v.3  forthere  Paw{circamciſeth  Timorhic;a  Grecian\:and  here
herefuſethtocircumciſe7#r,  though  he  were  a  Grecian,  I  ag-,  g
ſwerthus.  Circumcilion  was  at  this  time,athing  indifferent,  From
the  ficſt  inſtitution,  to  the  comming  and  ſpecially
ta  the  death  of
Chriſt,it  wasathing  commanded,a  Sacrament,and  apart  of  Gadg
worſhip,  Again,after  the  planting  of  the  Charch
of  thenew  Teſta.
cnent;ft
was  viterly
aboliſhe@andething
io  reſpeRof  vie,  viterly  ,
valawfall,
Inthe  middle  time,rhat  in
wht  the  Gaſpelwasinpub-
Li
aadche  Church  of  the  new  Teltament  was
yen  oonding  ie
manageremoais  free,  or
indifferent.  Ic  may  bee
obieRed,thatthe  whole  Ceremonial!
law  was  abaliſhed  in  the
death
6F  Chriſt:  anfwer,it  was  ſo-and  circomition  was  aboliſhed,  ,
|  reſpeR
of  faith,  and  conſcience:  ©  yet  ſo-as  the  vie.  thereof  was
left  to  thelibertie  ofthe
of  Gad  for  a  while,  Circumcilion  at
this  time  was  as  a  corps
thet  is  dead,
yet  ynb  eried,  and  onely
{11d  ont
and  ſoitmult  cemaine  for  a  time  that  ic
1d
"may  bez  buried  with
ho-
roome  ofci
fore
circuncilion  was
but
fi  pron  er  7  rene  Fenn
at  this  time,or  as  a  partof  Gods  worhip,or  as  a  matcec  of  acce(liey,
but  onely  as
then,whea  1eegnded
ihcation
of  men.
25
Bering  then
thing  indifferent,  it  might  as  occaſion  ſerved  bee
vied,or  notvſcd.  T  herefore  Pau/condeſcending
to  the  weakevelle
ofthe  belorwing  even  crmmathd  Tameolie:  and  at  hee  might  *
not  offend  the  godly,  and  hinder  Chriſtian  libertie,
he  refuſed  ro  |
circumciſe
77w.
zo  |
Here  a  greatqueſtion  isanſwered,  whether  we  may  vie  thingsin-
diffcrent,as  off  as  we  wil,&  how  we  wil?  Theanſweris,  No.  Things
are  not  called  indifferent;  becauſe  we  may  vie  them  indifferencly,
cr  notvſethem  when  we  will,  and  how  wee  will,  but  becauſein
}'
themſelues,or  in  their  own  nature;they  are  neither  good  nor  cuill,  z5
and  we  may  viethem  well,  or  ill,  and  we  may  againe  not  vile  them
well,  oreuill,  Furthermore,  there  bee  ewo  things  which  reltraine
the  vic  ofthings  indifferent:  the  lawe  of  charitic,  and  the  lawes  of
men.  Thelaweofchariticisthis,7hwgs  mndifferent  wn  the  caſe  of  ſcan-
dall  ,  ceaſe  tobee  indifferent,
and  are  as  things  morall,  that  is,  either  for-  40
bidden,or  commanded.  Pax/faith,it  tocate  fleſh,  betothe  offence
of  his  brother,he  wil  cate  ne  fleſh  while  the  world  (lids,  1  Cor.  :
I  /
