---
page: 63
pdf_page: 85
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.2,
%4J
beefalſe  brethren,  Thetrue  ſheepe  be  often  without,  and  wolves
within.  Therefore  we  may  not
reame  of  a  perfection
ofthe  Church  of  God  vpon
eartbzfo  loog  as  wicked  men  be  mixed
with  true  belecuers.
Againe,theſeaduerſaries  of  Pav/;arecalled  falſe  bretbren,hecauſe
they  ioyned  circumcilion  with  Chriſt,  as  a  neceſſarie  cauſe  of  ju-
ſtification,and  aluation.  Hence  it  followes,  that  the  Church  of
Rome,is  «fs  Chwrch  :  becauſe  it  ioynes  works  with  Chrilt,io  the
cauſe  ofour  iuſtification,and  that  as  meritorious  cauſes.
Theirſecond  propertie  is,  that  they  crepe  into  the  ('burch  which  1
7  conceive  onthismanner.  The  Church  of  God  isas  a  ſheepfold,or
houſe,7eb.10.1,  Chriſt  is  the  onely  doore.  Now  Paſtors  that  tea
Chriſtaright,are
ſaid  ts  enter  in by
thus
Aoore
+  they
which
teach  any
otherway  of  axon  are  ſaid  ro
her  way  :  and  they
[mb  in  an of
5  which teach  Chrilf,  1oyniog
other  thing  with  him
in  the
Calle  of
faluatioo  RT  tocreepe  in:  —_——_
th
maintaine
Chriſt;
an,
ethey  addeſomething
and
perocator
Cheilt,
they  neither  enter,oor  continuein
the  trueChucch
with  any  good
warrant  from
God.  Inthisthey  are  like  the  ſerpent.  Living  crea-
tures  were
inEden:  and  Man  was  placed  inthe  garden
02
of  Eden,called  Paradiſe,and
fo  were  not  bealts,  How  then  comes
che  ſerpentin  ?  why,  in  all  likelihood  it  creptio.  And  ſo  doefalſc
brethren  into  the
Church.  Hence  |  gather
falſe  brethren  arc
nottrue  andligely  membersofthevilibl,
ch:  though
they  be
25  membersin
ance.  For  if  they  were  in  their  right
place,  they
ſhould  not  beſaidtocreepein.  The  true  members
of  the  Church
creep  notinto  the  miltical  Cp  built  &  ſet  vpon  the  foun-
ged,that  they
are  baprized,&  ther-
datioa
by  God.  It  may  be
by  mademembers  of  the  Church,  I  aofwer:  chat  taith  makes  vs
members  of  Cheri
ently  ofthe  true  Church  :  and  bap-
30
tiſmedoth  but  ſeale  our  inſition  intoChriſt,and  ſerues  asa  meanes
ofadmiſſioninto  the  oxmediectyeſcbe  congeatiornniche
outward  waſhing  doth  not  make  any  man  a  member
of  Chriſt,  A-
gaſne,it  followes  hence,that  falſe  brethren  arenot  members  of  the
Catholike  church,  For  the  viſible  chruch  is  part  of  the  Catholike:
35
andthereforethey  which  are  not  reall  members  of  the  true  vilible
Church,arenot  members  of  the  Catholike.
Again,  in  that  falſe  brethren  creepe  into  the  Congregation,
hence  it  appeares  ,  that  ng
man
can  ſet  downe
the  preciſe  time,
40  when  errours  had  their  beginning.  For  the  authours  thereof  enter
in  ſecretly,not  obſerved  ot  men.  The  envious  man  ſowes
his  tarer  when
men  be  aſleepe,  Matth.  13.  It  ſuthceth  therefore,if  we
can  ſhewthem
F  8
£W
