---
page: 64
pdf_page: 86
---
pon
A  Conmmentarie
Chap.2.
74
to  beerrours  by  the  word,;though  wee  cannot  delignethe  ſet  time
when  they  began.  The  time  when  a  ſhip  lipketh,we  often  obſerve:
butthe  timewhen  it  brſtdrew  water,we  doc  not.  Let  the  Papiſts
thinke  vpon  this.
Paul  havivg  thos  declared  who  werethe  cauſes  that  Tirus  was  5
not  circuTciſed,goes  on,  and  ſhewes  how  they  were  cauſes.  T  he
effet  and  ſumme  of  bisdeclaration;isthis  :  T  hey  vrged  the  ob.
{eruation  of  the  Ceremoniall  law,as  neceſſary:  and  hereupon  we
refuſed  to  circumcileTuw,  T8  —_—  >
Paxl  ets  ks  how
they.
vrged  circumcilion,and
that
by
three  degrees.  Firlt
they  come  10
'"  RE  3  Secondly  ,they  ſpie  out  their  hbertie,  Thirdly,  they  labour  to
mts
e.  Agaioe;Par  ſets  downethe  manner
of  theit
11a
threete  wg.  We  gaze  not  place  for  an  boure.  Wee  gave
not
place  by
ſubieft:0n,  We  gaue  no  place  phat  the  rmth  of  the  Goſpel  might  15
continie  withyouw.
proeet
Thefirtd  apRen  vrging  ofcircuncifion,was,that
they  came
inprizily
:  (fiat  is,  they  ioyned
themſeluesin  tcllowſhip
withthe  Apolltles,  and  in-ſhew
pretended  the  furtheranceof
the
Goſpel,
&  yet  indeed
meant  nothing  lefſe:  thoogt
their  fraud
and
wickednes
was  not  perceived.  Here  then  the  foundation
they  lay  20
of  all  their  naughty  dealing,is  their  dillembling,  which  P@w/  berg
notes  and-condemnes,  On  the  contrary,
ove  dvrie  i:,tobe  indeed
thatwhich  weprote(ſe
our  ſelues  to  be  :  and  to  profeile  no  more
outwardly,then  we  areinwardly
:  and  to  approoue  our  hearts  to
God,for  that  which
weprofeſle
hefaremen.
'T;
The  {ecand  l{tep  or  degree
is,
that  they  /pi1e  ont  the  /tbertie  which
Paxl  and  the  reft  bad  by  Chriſt  :  that  is,  they  conferrewith  the  A-
poliles:
and  inquire
of  them  what  libertie
they  haue  by  Chriſt,ia
reſpec  of  the  Ceremoniall
law  of  God:  avd  this  they  doe  ,  not
ot  a  minde  deſirous  to  learne,  but  for  aduantage  ſake.  There  bee  30  |
two  kindesof  ſpying  :  onelawfull,the  other  valawfu)l.  Lawfull,
as  when  in  juſt  andlawfull  warre,  wee  inquire  ivto  the  counſells
and  doings
of  aur  efiemies,  Namber;  13.  x.  Volawfull,  when
men
prieinto  any  thing
or  matter,  to  finda  fault.
T  hus  bypocrites,
ic  faults  io  theperſons  and  lives  of  men  ,  that  they  may  haue  35
mewhat  whereby  to  diſgrace  them,  ar.  7.4:  Thus  Atheiſts  prie
into  theScriptures,  that  they  may  confute  them.  Thus  ſundric
bearers  come  to  Sermons,that  they  may  carpe.  Thus  our  enemies
inquireioto  our  religion,  that  they  may  finde(as  they  ſuppoſe)  ex-
EE
nngn  cnn,  contradictions.
And  inthe  Churchof  leru-  40
falem,  falſe  brethren  inquice  how  farre  Chriſtian  libertie  extends,
that they  may  overthrow  it,  This  kiade  of  pying  is  a  comenga
tauitz
