---
page: 87
pdf_page: 109
sortable_pagination_id: "87"
---
the  Epiſtle
to  the  Galatians.
|  Chap.
2.
93
ſinne,not  of  mabce,but  of  infirmitie.  A  linneof  infirmitieis,when
there  is  a  purpoſe
inthe  heart  notto  (noe  :  and  yet  forall  thimthe
ſinne  is  committed,  by  reaſon  the  will  is  ouercarried  by  temptati-
0n,0r  by  violence  of  affeRion,as  by  feare,  aoger,  luſt.  Thus  Peter
3  ſinned,  m_—  —  eres  that  to  linve
of  infirmitie  is
fly
inci
to
as
bee  regenerate,  as  Peter  was.  E
Leg  ws"
nennncrery  ra  fiane  his  infrmitie:  fornication  is  ots-
firmitie  of  the  fornicator,drunkennetſe  the  infirmitie  of  the  drun-
kard,&c.but  itis  falſe  which  they  (ay.  For  they  (inne  with  all  their
10  hearts  when  they  fione.
The  fourth  and  laſt  pg.  ;..,che  Effect  of  Peters  linnegin  draw-
iog  the  lewes,and  Barxabarto  the  like  dillimulation.  Here  we  ſee
the  contagion,  ef  _
an  evillexarple.  And  hence  we  learne,  that
Mioiſters
of  the  word  muſt  of  negeſhty  ioyne  with  good  doatine,
15  the  example  of  good  life.  For  firſt  of
all,it  is  theexpreiſe  comman-
dement  of  God,1.Per.5.3.Bepatternes  of  the  ſlocky,1  Tim.  4  12.Be  an
example  in  wor
ation,lone,  ſpirit  fanbpurnie,P
bil  4.8.  What  jee
haxe  ſceve  in
meythat  doe;  Math.5,16.Let
your  light  ſo
ſhine  before  men,
that  they
may  ſee  your  good  workes,  E-*  .:\:dly,  practiſe  inthe  Mini-
20  ſter  is  a  part  of  bis  teaching.  For  we;miaſtitude  doe  not  marke
ſo  much  what  men  ſay,as  wbat  mengdoe.”  Herod  did  many  things,
not  becauſe  Jobs  the  Baptif#  was  4  good  (Aſimifier  ,  but  becauſe
hee  was  4  good  man,  Marks  6.20,  Thirdly,  Miniſters  have  not
the  preſence  and  proteftian  of  God,  voleile  their  lives  bee  ver-
25  tuous  and  godly,  If  rhow  retwrne,  they  ſhalt  ſtand  brfore  me,  [erem.
15.19,  God  reweales  bis  ſecrets  tothe  Prophets  bis  ſernants,  Amos  3.
7.  Laſtly,
fearefull  ivdgements  of  God  belong  to  Miniſiers  of
wicked  lives,  Deſtruction  befalles  the  ſonnes  of  E,and  their
families,  becauſe  they  by  leud  example  made  the  people
of  God
39  tonne,  1.Sem.  3,24.  T  helike  beſell  theſonnes  of  Aaron  for  their
preſumption,
ad
Againe,  all  ſuperiours  are  warned  to  goe  beforetheirinferiours
by  good  example.  When  Aeſes  went  ioto  Egypt  to  bethe  guide
of  the
[ſraclites,the  Lord  would  haue  deltroied  him,  by  reaton  of
35  thebad  examplein  his  owne  family,namely,the  vncircumciſion  of
his  child.  Daxia,for  his  euill  example,  whereby  be  cauſed  the  ene-
mies  of  Godto  blaſpheme,  is  puoiſhed,  and  that  after  his  repen»
tance,that  men  might  ſee  in  him  an  example  of  Gods  iudgement
againſt  ſinne,  2.Saw.  12,  34.
49
Heereagaine  weſee,  that  theconſent  of  many  together,  is  vot
a  note  of  truth,  Petey,  B:1ynabas,  and  the  Tewes,  all  together  are
deceived,  and  Pax/  alone  hath  the  trueth.  Ponormitane  ER.
