---
page: 66
pdf_page: 88
---
Commentarie  pon
Chap.2.
F4
T2
20d  make  ceremonies,  ſignes  and  tokens,of  the  confeſſion  of  any
vntroth.  /e/an  the  Emperour  litiingin  a  chaireofeſtate,gavegold
Theodorer,
to  his  ſouldiers,  one  by  one,  withall  commanding  to  caſt  tran-
hift.lib,
kincenſe,ſo  much  as  a  graine  into  the  fire,  that  lay  vponan  hea-
4.16,
theviſh  alcar,before  bim,Nowe  Chrillian  ſouldiers  refoſe  to  doit:  5
and  they  which  had  notretuled,  afterward  recalled  their  ate,  and
williogly  ſuffered  death,
Againe,  here  we  learne,  that  weare  not  to  yeeld  from  the  leaſt
partof  the  trath  of  the  Golpell,
that  God  bath  reuealed  to  vs.
T  his  truth  is  more  pretious,  then  the  whole  world  beſide  :  and  16
heaven  and  earth  ſhall  rather  paſſe,  then  the  lea(tcittle  of  it  ſhall
not  be  accompliſhed.
The  commiſſion  of  the  Apoltles,
was  to
feach  them,  to  doe  all  things,  which  God  had  commanded.T
her-
forethe  vaion  or  mixture  of  our  religio  with  the  Popiſh  religion,is
but  adreame  ofvnwile  Politickes  :  tor  in  thismixture,  wee  mull  15
yeeld,  and  they  molt  yeeld  ſomething  :  but  wemay  not  yeeld,  a
j0t  of  the  truth  revealed
to  vs.T  here  i  no
fellowſhip  of
light  with/darke-
weſſe.2.Cor.6,  my
a  __—_
t  hearbe
marred  a  whole
pot  of  potrage.  2,
King.  4.49.
Chrilt  ith  inthe  like  caſe  of  the
Pharilies;  Les  chem  alone:  they  arerbe  blinde  leaders
of  the  blind,  Mat.  16
15.14  Weemay  yeeldinthiogs  indifferent,  but  notin  points  of
religion.1o  matters  of  this  world,  wemay  beindifferent,  and  of
neither  fide:  but  in  matters  of  God,
we  may  not,  Thereis  no  hal.
—_  two  _—
ELIOT
Theſecond  point  is,they  gaue  no
way
teftion.  The  25
Luk.10.r6,
reaſonis,  the  Apoltles  were  of  ext  nr  4  limply  to  be  be-
rn
rg
rs
OOO
neg
lecucd  in  their  dotrine.  And  they  had  extraordinary  authority,to
pubiſhthem  that  rebelliouſly  withſtood  the.  AZ.5.5.&10,  &  A.
13.20.2,  Cor.10.6.Forthis  cauſe,  they  were  not  to  [tand  ſubieR
to  the  iudgement  and  cenſure  of  any  man.  They  willingly  ſuffe-  30
red  theirdoArineto  be  tried,  yet  were  they  not  bound  to  ſubieRi-
on,as
other  miniſters  of  the  new  Teltameat  are,r.Cer.14.32:1./0h.
4-1.  It  may  be  faid,it  they  would  not  give  place  by  ſubieAion,how
then  gaue  they  place?  A»ſwer-There1s  two  kinds  of  yeelding:  one
by
tolleration  without  approbation;the  other  by  ſubieRion,which  35
is  the  greate(t  approbation  that  can  be,  By  the  fir(t,  ie  may  be,Pan!
was  content  to  giue  place,  butnot  by  theſecond.  Here  wee  ſee,
how  weare  to  yeeld  tothe  corruptions  of  the  times  in  which  we
live,  whether  they  be  in  manvers,  orin  doQrine.  We  areto  giue
place  by  meecke  and  patient  bearing  of  that  which  wee  cannot  4%
mende,but  we  are  not  togiueplace  by  ſuhi\:ion,
;  The  third  point  is,  theeadof  Pav/s  refulall,  Thar  the  rrwth  of
tbe
