---
page: 67
pdf_page: 89
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.2.
->
the  Goſpel  might  continue  :  that  is,  that  the  Goſpel  might  bee  preſer-
ved  if  puritic,  andintegritie  in  all  chings.  And  by  this  Pa»l  giues  vs
to  vnder(tand,  that  if  ciccamcigon  bee  made  a  'necellarie  cauſe  of
iullification  and  ſaluation,  thetruth  of  che  Goſpel  doeth  not  con-
5  tinye,  Herelet  vs  obſerue,  that  when  iultitication,  or  ſaluation  is
aſcribedto  workes  or  Sacraments,  the  truth  of  the  Golpell  gives
place,  and  falſhood  comes  in  the  roome.  Whereforethe  religion  of
the  Church  of  Rome  zis  a  meere  deprauation  of  the  Goſpel,  for  it
makes  workes  to  be  the  meritorious  cauſes  ot  iultitication,  and  ſal-
r9  uation,N  ;
pre  is  more;  it  teacheth  mento  worſhip  a  pecece  of
jo
toiagocatedead  men,  andto  kneele  downe  to  ltockes,
and  ltones.
Jy
6  And  of  them  that  ſeemed  to  be  great  *  —:  (  what  they  «  1  lexnes
t5  were  in  times  paſt,  it  makes  no  matter  to  me:
God  accepteth  wo  nothing,orT
ſon:  )  for  they  that  are  the  chiefe,  did  not  communicate  ,  2ught,
was$  not
mans
any!  ng  [0  me.
Here  P«sl  laies  downe  the  ſecond  figne  of  his  approbation  ,
namely,that  in  conference;  he  learned  nothing  ofthe  chiefe  Apo-
20  les.  And  this  he  expreſſeth  in  the  firlt  words:  in  which,  the  con-
cealement  which  he  victh  ,  is  to  be  obſerued.  For
hauing
begun
a  ſentence  he  breakesit  off  in  the  middle,  and  conceales  the
latter
part
and  leaues  it  to  bee  ſupplied  by  the  reader  thus;  Ofthews  chas
ſeemed  to  be  great,  ]
was  not  tanght,Or,l  learned  nothing.
T  he  like  forme
25  of  ſpeaking,  isvſ\:d  1.  Chron.4.
10.  Where  [abexlaith,  Ifthe  Lord
bleſſe  me  and  be  with  me;  concealing  the  endot  his  ſentence,  /  will  bee
th..nkefull,tharzand  thus,
Intheroome  of  this  concealement,  Pa»/puts  an  anſwer  toaw
obieRion.
For  ſome  man  might  take  exception  againſt  his  former
30  gno—_  T  hou  calleſt  the  Apoltles  Grear,  but  thou  ſpeakeſt
ainedly  :  forthou  knowelt  ,  they  were  but  poore  fiſhermen;  To
this  he  makes  anſwer  thus  :  ar  they  were  once,  it  makes  no  matter  to
me,
T  hen  he  renders  a  reaſon  of  hisab{wer:  God  acceprs  no  mans  prr-
{on.  T  his  done,  he  proceeds,and  readers  a  reaſon  ot
his  fir{t  ſpeech:
35  helearned  nothing  of  the  cheete  Apoltles\:becauſe,they  did  wot  com-
municate  anything  ts  him,  either  in  doArine  or  cuuntell.
The  vſe.
T  his  verſeſ{erues  toexpound  other  places  in  Saipt  7ohn:
where  Chri(t  promiſeth  to  give  hus  ſpirit  to  bus  Doſciplesytoteach  them
all  things,  [0h,14.26.  andto  leade  them  mto  all  truth,  loh,16.4  3,  Now
49  thele  promiſes  direQly,and  properly,  concerne  the  Apollles  :  and
they  arc  here  verified  in  Pax/,  Who  was  fo  farre  forth  taught
by
(0d,&led  into  altruth;that  the  chiet  Apoſtles  could  not  teach,  or
F  4
communicate  ,
iy
