---
page: 9
pdf_page: 9
---
4x
The  Epiſtle  Dedicatorie.
contrattedleaues  into  lines,  and  lines  into  letters,  Whichtedious
diſcourſes,and  impertinentexcurtions  from  thetexr,ſerue  for  no  os
therend  but  to  call  a  miſt  before  the  eyes  of  the  reader  y  and  draw
(as  it  were  )theveile
of  HAY  overhigface
ſo  that  he  carer  ſeethe
meaningofthe  holy  Ghoſt.  Orkers  on  the  contrarieatoroo  torr,
2.Cor.2,
and  compendious,
offending  as  mach  in  breuitie,  as  the  former  in
pralixitie  :  by  natne,  Emmanacl  Sa  the  leſuit  whoſe  Cominentaries
ypon  the  Bible  are  ſhorter  then  che  texr  ir  ſelte  ,  liketo  thoſe  of  A-
linaris,of  whom  /erom  writeth;that  a  mar'which  readeththem,
Non  t\:m
wayld  thinkehe  read  Conrentr  of  chaptive,  riither  then  Comme  1  aries.
Comment
t«
But  as  for  theminner:  the  terall  ſenſe(which/out  author  here  fol-
rios  qua  n  ine
loweth)isthe  oatly  ſenſe  intended  by  the  Spirit  of  God:  the  Alle-
ICIa  CAaDItuiGe
rum,  Hicron,
goricall,  Tropulogicall,  Anagogicall,  beeing  but  ſeuerall  vics  and
ProcQenliin  rs.
applicatioostheregf;  For  the  Scriptyre  (con(1
ſting
in  the  ſcaſe  not  Commear.  in
ithe  letters  )is  profitableto  teach;  and  improove,  as  P<w/ſaiths
Etu.
whereas  from  the
Aﬀegoticallſenſenoneceiſarie  argument  can  be
2.  Tim.  2,  16,
Symbolic
taken(as  their  own  Yoorsconfeſſe)either  to  confirme  or  confute
Fheologia
any  prey  doQrine\:andtherefore  much  letſe  from  the  T  ropolo-
non  eſt  ar  Zu
gicall,or  Anagogicall.  Andas  for  themeaſure,in  regardof  breuitie
menrarua,
Thom.
or  prolixity  z
the  golden  meane  hath  alway  beene  iodged  by  the
learned  to  be  the  belt,  which  isnorone!y  togiue  the  bare  meaning
paraphraſtigally,  butro  maKkecolle&ion  of  doAtrine  &  app!ication
ot  viesy  yetbricfly,  rather  pointing  at  the  chicfe,  then  dwelling
long  vpon  any  poinr.  Sqmgare  of  opinion  that  a  Commentoris
onely  to  give  the  literal
{-nceofthe  place,  without  making  further
vie  ofapp/ication.orin{trotion  To  which  |  could  ea(ily  ſubſcribe,
it  all  the  Lorfs  people  coold;  rcphefie  or  it  all  were  able  to  handle
the  word  vt  Go4,thef
ord  of
the  (pirit:  For  as  to  an  expert  Mutt
tian  who  is  acquainted  with  the  concords  or  rules  of  dilcant,  it  is
as  yood  adirection  to  haue  one'y  the  groundas  if  he  had  every
point  prick2d  out  vnto  him,heinginaredro  the  divifion  vpon  eve-
ry  point,as  it  falleth  outin  che  ground:  Soto  himehat  is  Cquaig-
ted  withthe  word  of  God,a  ſhort  &  conciſe  handling  ofthe  Scrip-
ture,may  be  as  gooda  direQion  as  if  exery  point  were  diſcourled  at
large.  But  becauſeallreaders  arenot  ſtrong  men  in  Chriſt,  ſome  be-
ing  but  babes,who  muſt  haveeucry  thing  minced,andcut  ſmal  va-
to  them  before  they  can  receive  it.  N-ither  all  teachers  expert-and
prompt  Scribeslike  to  Ezra,  nor  mightie  in  the  Scriprureas  Apot-
los,  tuchas  are  able  to  dividethe  word  aright,  and  applieit  ftly  as
they  ought:  (Some  being  deceirf
ill  workemen  perucrting  it  to  their
2.Cor.r1.r;.
ownedeltruion,  inprelling
the  two  dugges  of  the  Scripture,
the  Voluſ  un.  ol
OIdand  New  Teſtament;thatin  (teed
ol  milke;they  HT  mage
Nicol.  2.
ls
as
,  -
Ws
A  4
