---
page: 69
pdf_page: 91
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap.2.
79
When  Pal  faith  ,  What  they  were  in  times  pait,  it  matters  not  to
mee:  wee  learne,  that  wee  are  toe{teeme  of  men,  not  as  they  have
been,  but  as  they  are,  Peter,  lames,and  /obn,though  they  had  been
fſhermen,  yet  they  are  honoured
of  Paw/  as  Apoltles,  Therfore
when  men  have  repented  ,  wee  may  not  vpbraid  them  with  their
lives  paſt.  Neither  may  we  take  occalion  to  contemne  them  that
bee  in  authoritiez  becauſe  wee  haue  knowne  what  they  have  bene
heretofore:  but  every  man  is  to  bee  eſteemed  according  to  bis
calling,  and  according  to  the  grace  of  God  given  him,  Like  is
10  Gods  mercifull  dealing  toward  vs.  For  heaccepts  men,notasthey
have  been,  but  as  they  are  when  they  repent.  T  berefereif  Sathan
ſhall  at  avy  time  obieRthy  lite  palt  :  ſay  vontohim  thus  :  Tellme  not
what  [  hime  been:  but  tell  mee  what  I  amyand  what  I  will  bee,  T  bis  futh-
ceth  when  we  repent.
I5
Godaccepteth
tbe  perſon  of  no  man]  */  perſon  is  meant  ,  not  the
ſubſtance
of  a  man,or  the  man  himſelfe,but  the  outward  qualitie,
or  condition  of  man,as  country  ſexe,  birth,condition  ot  life,  riches,
pouertie,  pobilitie,wiſdome,learning.&c.  And  God  is  ſaid,  nor  ro
acgept  the  perſon,  becauſe  he  duth  callmen,  bellow  his  gitts,and  giue
29  judgement,  according  to  his  owne  wile  aad  iult  plezture,  and  not
according  to  the  outward  appearance,  and  condition  of  the  per-
ſon.  Reade  lob  34.15.  It  may  bee  obieQed,that  God  dealesnot  e-
lly  with  them  that  are  equal!  :  becauſe  all  men  are  equall  in  4-
nom:  of  them  hee  chooleth  ſome  toeternall  life,  and  refuſeth
25  others.  I  anſwer:  heis  ſaid  to  accept  perſons,  that  dealesvnequally
with  men,  being  bound  to  deale  equally  :  now  God  is  notthus
bound:  becauſe  he  is  a  Soueraipne,  and  abſolute  Lord  over  all  his
creatures,and  may  doe  with  his  owne  what  kee  will,  Mfatth.20.16,
Secondly,itmay  be  obieRted,  that  God  bad  re{þelt  to  eAbel  and  bis
39  ſacrifice,Gen  4.4.  Anſw,  T  he  condition  of  man  is  twofold,  outward,
juward.  Outward,  (ftands  in  worldly  and  ciuillreſpeRts.  Inward,
andsio  a  pure  heart,  good  conſcience,and  faith  vofained.  For  this
nly  was  Abel  reſpeRed,Heb.11.4.  Though  God  accept  not  the
outward  perſon,  yet  i  exery  nation  hee  that  feareth  God,  is  accepted  of
35  him,  Alles  10.34.  T
hirdly,  it  may  be  obieed,  that  God  iudgeth
every  man  accordingto  his  works.  A»ſw,  Though  works  appeare
outwardly,  yet  the  root  and  ground  ot  themis  inthe  heart.  And
the  iudgement  of  Godis  accordiog  tothem,  as  they  are  the  fruits
ol  thefaith  of  the  heart.
49
Thevle.  Allmen  areinthis  to  bee  likevnto  God  their  heauen-
ly  Father:  not  accepting  perſons  in  theirdealings.
As  Magiſtrates
in  the  execution  of  iuſtice,  Deater,1.17.  Minilters  in  —
an
