---
page: 71
pdf_page: 93
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians,
Chap.2.
When  Par!  faith  ,  What  they  were
in  limes  pait,  it  matters  not  to
wee:  wee  learne,  that  wee  are  toelteeme  of  men,  not  as  they  have
been,  but  asthey  are.  Peter,  lames,and  /ohn,though  they  had  been
fſhermen,  yet  they  are  honoured  of  Pau/  as  Apoſtles,  Therfore
when  men  have  repented,  wee  may  not  vpbraid  them  with  their
lives  paſt.  Neither  may  we  take  occalion  to  contemne  them  that
bee  in  authoritie;  becauſe  wee  haue  knowne  what  they  have  bene
heretofore  :  but  euery  man  is  to  bee  eſteemed  according  to  bis
calling,  and  according  to  the  grace  of  God  given  him,  Like  is
19  Gods  mercifull  dealing  toward  vs.  For  heaccepts  men,notasthey
have  been,
but  as  they  are  when  they  repent.  T  herefereif  Sathan
ſhall  at  avy  time  obieRthy  lite  paſt  :  ſay  votohim  thus  :  Tellme  wor
what  [  hame  been:  but  tell  mee  what  I  amyand  what  I  will  bee,  T  his  (oth-
ceth  when  we  repent.
I5
Godaccepteth
tbe  perſon  of  noman]  BY  perſon  is  meant  ,  not  the
ſubſtance  of  a  man,or  the  man  himſelte,but  the  outward  qualitie,
or  condition  of  man,as  country;ſexe,birth,condition  ot  life,  riches,
pouertie,  nobilitie,wiſdome,lezrning.&c.  And  God  is  {aid,  nor  rs
acgept  the  perſon,  becauſe  he  duth  call  men,  beltow  his  gifts,and  giue
29  judgement,  according  to  his  owne  wile  aad  iult  pleature,  and  not
according  to  the  outward  appearance,  and  condition  of  the  per-
ſon.  Reade  lob  34.15.  It  may  bee  obiefted,  that  God  deales  not  e-
lly  with  them  that  are  equall  :  becauſe  all  men  are  equall  in  4-
-  ws  of  them  hee  chooſeth  ſome  toeternall  life,  and  refuſeth
25  others.  I  anſwer:  beis  ſaid  to  accept  perſons,  that  dealesvnequally
with  men,  being  bound  to  deale  equally  :  now  God  is  notthus
bound:  becauſe  he  is  a  Soueraipne,  and  abſolute  I  ord  over  all  his
creatures,and  may  doe  with  his  owne  what  kee  will,  farth.20.16,
Secondly,it  may  be  obieRed,  that  God  bad  re/þelt  toe  Abel  and  bis
39  ſacrifice,Gen  4.4.  Anſw.  T  he  condition  of  man  is  twofold,  outward,
juward.  Outward,  ſtands  in  worldly  and  ciuillreſpets.  Inward,
=  a  pure  heart,  good  conſcience,and  faith  vofained.  Forthis
nly  was  Abel  reſpeRed,Heb.11.4.  Though  God  accept  not  the
outward  perſon,  yet  in  exery  nation  hee  that  feareth  God,  is  accepted  of
35  him,  Alles  10.34.  Thirdly,  it  may  be  obiected,  that  God  iudgeth
eyery  man  accordingto  his  works.  Asſiv,  Though  works  appeare
outwardly,  yet  the  root  and  ground  of  themis  inthe  heart.  And
the  judgement  of  Godis  accordiog  tothem,  as  they  are  the  fruits
olthefaith  of  the  heart.
49
Thevſe,  Allmenareinthis  to  bee  like  vnto  God  their  heauen-
ly  Father:  not  accepting  perſons  in  theirdealings,
As  Magiſtrates
in  the  execution  of  iuſtice,  Dexter.  1,17.  Minilters  in  teaching,
and
