---
page: 73
pdf_page: 95
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.1.
the  circumciſion,  was  alſo  mightie  by  me  toward  the  Gentiles.)
9  And  when  lames,  and  Cephas,  and  Tobn  knew  the  grace—
of  God  that  was  giuen  to  mee,  which  are  accounted  pillars,  they
gauetomeand  to  Barnabas
the  right  hand  of  fellowſhip,  that  we
9  ſhould  preach  to  the  Gentiles
and  they  ynto  the  Circumciſion.
The  wordes  of  more  difticultic  are  thusto  be  explaned.  [Cam
trariwiſe]  that  is,they  did  communicate  nothing  to  mee  in  way  of
correction,  but  on  the  contrary  they  gave  me  the  hand  of  fellow-
10  ſhip.  Againe,  the  words{[C\:rcurncrion,  and  Pacirenmcifien  Flignibe
the  nation  of  the  [ewes,and  the  Gentiles,  the  onecircumciſed,the
other  vacircumciſed.
And  when  Pas!  ſaith,that  th:  graceof  God  was
1  to  him  hee  meanes  ſpecially,  thegiſt  of  an  Apoſtle,  Romv.  1.5.
r5
a{tly,zo  gine  the  right  hand  of  fellowſpip  ro  Pant,  is  toeſteemeand  ac-
knowledge  him  for  their  collegue,or  fellow  Apollle,by  giving  the
right  handin  token  thereof,
The  contents  of  the  wordsare  theſe.  Here  P  au!  ſets  downethe
third  ligne  of  his  approbation,  namely,  that  the  chiefe  Apollles
acknowledged  him  tor  their  fellow  Apoſtle,verſc  9.  Secondly,he
03  ſets  downe  the  maner  how  thecheefe  Apoſtles  acknowledged  this
fellowſhip  :  and  that  was,by  making  a  covenant  with  Pa»/,that  he
ſhould  preach  tothe  Gentiles,and  Petey  to  the  lewes,  Thirdly,be
ſets  downe  the  impulliue  cauſe  that  mooued  the  Apoſtles  to  re-
ccive  Pa!  to  their  tellowſhip:  and  that  was  the  decree  of  God,
25  whereby  he  ordained,that  Paw!  ſhould  bee  the  cheefe  Apoltleto
the  Gentiles,and  Peter  the  cheefe  Apoltleamong  the  Iewes,  ver.  7.
Laſtly,he  ſets  downe  the  (ignes,  whereby  the  Apoſtles  knew,  that
P  al  was  ordained  the  Apoltleofthe  Gentiles  :  and  they  are  two,
the  grace  of  God  giuen  bim,and  the  power  of  his  Miniſtery  among
39  the
Gentiles,v-8.g.  Furthermore,  the  things  here  contained,arein
aSylogiſme  diſpoſed  thus  :
When  the  Apoſtles  ſaw  that  7  was  ordained  the  chiefe  Apoitle  of  the
Gentiles,  and  Peter  of  the  Iewes,  they  acknowledged  me  for  thew  fel-
r5
low  Apoſile,and  made  a
conenant  with  me,  that  I  (pouldpreach  tothe
Gentiles,and  Peter  tothe  ewes,
But  when  I  was  with  them  at  leruſalem,  they  ſaw  that  I  was  ordained
the  chiefe  of  the  Apoſtles  of  the  Gentiler,and  Peter  of  the  lemes,
This  wwor  is  omitted,  yet  the  proofe  thereof  is  ſet  downe  thus.
49  For  they  ſaw  the  ethicacieof  my  miniſtery  among  the  Gentiles,and
the  grace  of  God  that  was  with  me.  Therfore  they  acknowledged
metor  their  fellow  Apoltle,&c.
The
