---
page: 74
pdf_page: 96
---
Chap.2-
A  Commentarie  pou
The  vſe.  This  text  makesnotably  againit  theprimacie  of  Peter,
Firſt  therefor:
let  vs  obſerue  the  Ordjigance  of  God  here  plainely
exprelſed,that  Pau!  ſhould  be  the  chicte  A  poſtleof  the  Gentiles,
and  Peter  the  chiefe  Apoltleofthe  lewes.  And  this  may  elſewhere
beegathered.  For  the  Commillion  of  thetwelue  Apoſtles  ranne  5
thus,  that  they  mw#t  firſt  preach  to  Jeruſalem  and  Indeaytben  to  Samaria:
and  in  the  laft  place,  to  the  uitermoſt  parts  of  the  earth,  Aftes  1.8,  And
Paul;  Commillion  was,  that  he  ſhould  firſt  preachto  the  Gentiles,
and  in  the  ſecood  place  to  the  people  of  Iſrael,  47.9.15.  It  may  be
obiected,that  the  Commiſſion  of
all  the  Apoſtles,was  to  goeinto  19
all  the  world,and  topreach  to  all  men  without  exception.  Aſar.15
1  5.  Anſwer.  This
powerand  liberty  Chriſtgaue  toallthe  Apoſlleg,
and  hedid  not  take  it  away  afterward  :  neuertl\:eletſe,he  orderedit
by  a  ſecond  decree;that  P«»/ſhovuld  ſpecially  havecare  of  the  Gen-
tiles,and  Peter  of  the  ewes,  And  this  the  Lord  did  in  great  wile-  1
dome,thatconfulion  and  diſcord  oo  be  auoided,  and  a  regard
me
had  of  allprouinces  through  the  world.
Hence  it  followes;that  the  primacy  of  Peter  ouer  Tewes  &  Gen-
tilesis  a  ſuppoſed  thing.  For  the  ordinance  of  God  is,that  Peter  (hal
"=
be  chiefe  over  the  Jewer,andnot  over  the  Genter,which  were  almoll  us  ©
allthe  world  beſide.  Andthus  theſupremacie  of  the  Pope  goesto
the  ground,for  if  hee  hold  of  Petey,  and  ſucceed  him  in  authoritie
and  office,(as  he  pretends)  hee  mult  challenge  a  ſupcrioritie  over
the  lewes,and  he  hath  nothing  to  doe  with  vs.  For  Pas!  was  chiefe
ouer  the  Gentiles,and  not  Peter,
25
Secondly,  this  Ordinance  of  God  gives  vs  to  vnderſtand,  that
the  place,  arr.16.  18.  Then  art  Peter,and  vpox  this  rocke  will  |  build
my  Church,  &-c.  and  |  will  gine  thee  the  keyes  of  the  kingdome  of  heaven:
doeth  not  containe  a  promiſe  made  to  Perer,of  a  Primacie  over  all
the  Apollles,  and  ouer  the  Catholique  Church,  1f  Criſt  had
meantany  ſuchthing,in  theſe  words,  he  would  not  have  alſ\:igaed
the  lewes  to  Peter,  andallthe  pations  of  the  world  helideto  Paul,
T  hus  welec  how  this  text  for  many  hundred  yearcs  hath  beenea-
buſed,and  is  till  at  this  day.
Thirdly;it  isfalfe  which  the  Papiſts  teach;thatthe  placein  Saint  ;;
Tobn,  Feed  my  lumber,and,  feed  my  fhcepe,  gives  a  primacie  to  Peter,0-
ver  the  whole  world,  For  by  theordinance  of  God,  thisfeediog  of  *
lambes  and  ſheepe,is  limited  to  the  nation  ofthe  lewes.
La(tly,wheras  Exſebru  faith  in  his  Chronicle,tbat  Peter  was  Bis
ſhop
of  Romes,&  fate  25.yeares,it  hath  uolikelihood  of  truth  :  for
48
then  Peter  lived  in  the  breach  of  an  expreiſe  commaundementot
God  tor  a  long  time  ;  becauſe  the  lewes  were  his  ſpeciall  charge.
Apgainey
