---
page: 97
pdf_page: 119
sortable_pagination_id: "97"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.2.
10y
obediencgis
from  the  manhood\:therefore  it  is  faid,;that  Chrift  bare
our/ranerin
bis  bodie
vponthecroſſe.  1.Pet.  2.24,  that  be  ſuffered  inthe
fleſs.  1.Pet.4.1,  that  be  made
«  ling  way  by  the  veils  of  bus  fleſh,  Heb,
10,20.  that  we  are  reconciled  inthe  bodie  of  bu  fleſh.  Coloſſ  1.22,  Obe-
5  dience,  is,
aſubieRion
of  the  will  in  reaſonable  creatures
tothe  will  of  God  :  now  the  will  of  the  Godbead  of  Chrilt,  admits
noſubieRion  to  the  willof
God  :  beeauſc  the  will  ofthe  Godhead
_  God,)  is  oneandtheſamein  all  the  perſons.  Chriſt  there-
ore  yeelds  ſubieQion  onely  in  reſpeRofthe  will  of  the  manhood:
10  in  which  heperformes  obedience.  Moreover,the  operation  of  the
Godhead  is  tomakethe  faid  Obedience  meritorious  and  fatisfa-
Qorie  for  all  that  ſhall  belecue.  In  this  reſpeR  P  a»/ſaith,  God  was  +"
Chriſt  reconciling
the  world  unto
hi
,  2.  Cor.  5.18.  andthat  G
ſhedbisbleod,  Att.  20.1  rok  are.
oo
ature  which  the  Sonne  of
15  Godaſſumed..  Hence  ariſeth  the  value,  price,  and  dignitic  ofthe
obedience  of  Cheift.
The  third  queſtion  is,  how  the  Obedience
of  Chriſtſhould  bee
madeours?  Anſw.  By  thefree  donation  of  God.  For  Chrilt  is  re-
ally  given  vato  vs  inthe  word,  and  ſacraments  ;  and  conſequently
10  the  obedicnceof
Chriſt  is  made  onrs  1  euen  as  when  a  peece  of
ground  ismade  ours,the  commoditie  thereof  is  ours  alſo,
The  fourth  queſtion  is,  how the  obedience  of  Chriſt  ſhould  be
our  iultice?  A»ſ;  Itis  notovur  iultice  in  naturall  manner:  for  then  it
ſhould  bein  vs  :  but  by  a  divine  and  ſupernatural!  manner,namely,
25  by  Gods  Acceptation,  in  that  be  accounts  it  ours  even
as  truly  as
if  it  werein
vs.  And  becauſe  God  accepts  it  for  ours,  it  is  ours  in-
I  AOILEnny  of  any
thing,  is  the  doing  of
it:  and  hecalsthethings
that  are  notas  if  they  were.
Thus  weſce  what  the  Obedience
of  Chriſt  is.  And  here
two er-
30  rours  mult  be  auoided,  The  one  is  of  fome  Proteſtants,leiTſedange-
rour,yet  an  vntruth;namely,that  we  are  iuſtified,  onely  by  the  paſ-
ſion
of  Chriſt,  But  if  this  were  ſo,  wee  ſhould  beiu  ited  without
fulfillingthelaw\:for  (as  I  bave  ſaid)  we  owe  to  God  a  double  debt:
one  by  creation,  namely,thetulbllipg  ofthelaw  in  all  chings,from
35  our  firſt  beginning:  the  ſecond,  (ince  the  Fall  of  Adam,  vamely,  a
latisfaRion  for  the  breach
of  the  law.  Now  the  Paſſion  of  Chrilt,
is8
of  theſeconddebr”,  but  notof  the  fir  whereas  both
wered,  For  Curſed  ir  he  that  doth  not  continue  in  all  thing  s
writtewnthe
law,  te  doe  them,  The  paſſion  of
Chriſt  procuretb  deli-
49  ueroncefrom
hell;  butalone  by  is  ſelfe  conſidered.  doth  not  pur-
chaſea  Right  toeternall  life.
D76
Ori  INA
.  Qhelhos  7.  Chrilt  fulfilled  the  —"E—  ;  —_—
1.01
þ  4
on
