---
page: 99
pdf_page: 121
sortable_pagination_id: "99"
---
the  Epiſtle  to  the  Galatians.
Chap.  2.
107
inſtification:  and  it  is in  this  life  mixed  with  the
ion
of  the
fleſh.  Fourthly,  the  righteouſnes  of  a  good  conſcience  is  an  excel-
lent  grace,and  gift  God\:bat  by  it  we  are  not  inftified,
1.Cor.4.4.  Lalt-
ly,  a  cloſe  errour  is  tobe  noted  in  this  Popiſh
doArine  of
iultifica-
5  tion.  Forin  Popiſh  learning,  Remiſſon
of  (linnesis  notonely  an  a-
boliſhing  ofthe  guilt,  and  the  puniſhment,  but  alſo  ofthe  corrup-
tion  of  ſinne:  ſoas  the  partie  pardoned,and  iultified;hath  nothing
io  him,that(as  they  ſay)  God
may  ialtly  hate.  And  yet  Pax/julti-
fied,  and  regenerate  ſaith  otherwiſe  of  himſelfe:  that  ane  dwelleth
10  mm  himzand  that  the law  of  /iune  rebolls  m  him  againſt  the  law  of  his  mind,
and  leader  hum  captine  to  ſinne,  Row.  7.
T  he  vſe  of  the  doctrine.  Firſt,in  that  we  are  iuſtified,by  an  obe-
dience  out  of  ourſclues,  we  are  taught,  vtterly  to  deny  our  (clues  ,
and  to  goe  out  of  our  ſelues,  as  having  nothing  in  vs  whereby  we
15  may  beſaued.  Hereis  the  foundation  of.the  abnegation  of  our
ſelues.  Secondly,the  obedience  of  Chriſt  muſt  be  vato  vs  the  foun-
dation  ofour  obedience:  for  he  |  ———  all  righteouſnes
for  vs,
that  we  might  be  ſeruants  not  of(ione,  but  ſervants  ofrighteouſnes
in  all  duties  of  obedience.  Andin  his  obedience  we  mult
not  onely
20  reſpect  the  meritthereof,but  alſo  bis  holy  example  in  loue,mercy,
meekenes,pati
c.andafterit,  are  we  to  faſhion  our  lives.
ern  (oe  nn
renner  oyader  yer
in
temptations,we
are  to
poſethe  obedience  of  Chriſt  againſt
the  fierce  wrath  of  God,  a
25  gainſthel,death,and  condemaation.  Certen  bealts,when  they  are
,  iethe
next  way  to  their  dennes,where  they  hold  them-
elues  euen  to  death.  Chriſt  in  reſpeR
of  his  obedience,  is  our  bi-
ding  place:  Rowe.  3.26.heiſet  forth  vato  the  world
as  4  Propitiatory,
For  as  the  Proputiatory  couered  the  Arke,and  the  decalogve,  ſo
30  couereth
our  (innes,and  he  hides  our  bodics,and
ſoules,  from  the
furiousindignation,andvengeanceof  God.  Let
vs  therefore  by  our
faith,flie  tothis  our  biding
inthe  (torme'  &
of
wrath\:and  let  vs  there  live  and  die.  Fourthly,this  Obedience  is  the
Cm  wo  pre  ay  «ee  For  true
hapines
is,
to  be  eaſed  of  our
35  linnes,P(4433.1.and  this  caſe
we  have
Chriſt,  Marth  11.18,
an
conſideration
of  this  obedience,  is  the  foundation  of
our
fulnes  to  God,  Forifwe  beleeue  that  Chrilt  ſuffered,and
fulfilled  the  law  for  vs,we  are  worſethen  beaſts,
ifwe  doe  not  every
way  ſhew  our  {clues  thankfull  for  this  mercy.
Thebftbpointto
be  conlidered,  is  the  meanes  of  iuſtifica-
tion,  namely,cbe
Faub  of  Chriff,  Of  which  I  conlider
ings.
The  firſt,  what  faith
is,  The  CT  _
