---
reading: albert-sentences-4.25
page: 87b
pdf_page: 97
sortable_pagination_id: 97.2
---

by the power of him who instituted it, who gave this power to man, so that when he preserved the form and the intention, this or that sacrament would be effected.

To the other \[objection\] it must be said that this channel is joined to the Church through the likeness of form and intention: and these suffice, as has been said.

To the other \[objection\] it must be said that God does not work toward the destruction of his own work, but rather toward its construction: for he shows the power of his work by operating even through evil men; and on account of this the Church cleaves to him all the more, and the damnation of heretics is the more just.

## D. On simony — whence it is so called, and what it is.

Concerning simoniacs there is no doubt that they are heretics; nevertheless, before the sentence of degradation, they both ordain and consecrate. And although, properly speaking, those are called simoniacs who, after the manner of Simon Magus, wish to procure for a price the grace that cannot be priced, while those who receive a price for sacred ministry, in the manner of Gehazi, ought to be called Gehazites: nevertheless both givers and receivers alike are called simoniacs, and both are struck by the same sentence.

## E. On those who are knowingly ordained by simoniacs.

There is, however, a difference between those who are ordained by simoniacs knowingly and those who are ordained unknowingly. For those who have knowingly permitted themselves to be consecrated — nay rather, execrated — by simoniacs: their consecration is entirely void. But those who are ordained by simoniacs whom, when they are ordained, they do not know to be simoniacs, since at that time they are also held as Catholics: their ordination is mercifully sustained.
