---
reading: albert-sentences-4.25
page: 89a
pdf_page: 99
sortable_pagination_id: 99.1
---

is a vehement application of the mind to doing something.” Therefore it seems that this does not pertain to buying or selling, and so it is wrongly placed in this definition.

4. Further, a question is raised about that part where he says, *Of buying or selling something spiritual*. For there was an eager will in Abraham to buy a burial place, when he made an agreement with Ephron about the double cave of the field; and yet he is not called a simoniac. Therefore the definition is false, as it seems.

5. Again, Nothing is more spiritual than the kingdom of heaven; and yet it is bought and sold all day long, as it seems, Matthew XIII, 45: *The kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant seeking goodly pearls*, etc. And Augustine says: “I have it for sale, etc.” Gregory: “The kingdom of heaven is worth as much as you have.” Therefore it seems that other spiritual things too can be sold.

6. Further, it is asked what is called “attached to the spiritual”? For nothing is attached to itself; therefore neither is a spiritual thing attached to itself. Therefore what is attached to the spiritual is something corporeal. But a corporeal thing that is attached to something spiritual can be sold, as is clear when a knight sells a village in which he has the right of patronage. Therefore the definition is false.

Response. To this it seems that the definition is good. What is said, *An eager will*, refers to the will together with the effect of the work, so far as concerns the simoniac. What he says, *Of buying or selling*, refers to the proper act of simony. And what he says, *Something spiritual or attached to the spiritual*, refers to the matter.

To the first, then, it must be said that it refers to the will together with the act on the part of the simoniac. To the objection against this, it must be said that chalices and the like are spiritual things according to the fourth mode of spirituality, as will be clear below, and such things can be sold; and this is the solution of the Decretists, and it has no rational force. Hence it must be said,
