---
reading: albert-sentences-4.25
page: 89b
pdf_page: 99
sortable_pagination_id: 99.2
---

that when he says, *Of buying or selling something spiritual insofar as it is spiritual*, it is understood that the buying or selling falls upon the spiritual insofar as it is spiritual, so that its spirituality increases the price; and then the definition is true, because thus simony is committed both in the case of chalices and of other things.

To the other it must be said that although this sin is more shameful \[than usury\], nevertheless it is completed in something other than usury is, namely in an external act; or else a completed will suffices for its perfection. And there is a counter-instance: for homicide is more shameful than usury, and a greater sin, and yet it is not completed in the will alone, as usury is.

To the other it must be said that “eagerness” \[studium\] is here taken for the diligence applied by the simoniac himself in order to complete the sin; and so the equivocation misleads, because it is not defined by Tullius \[Cicero\] in that sense.

To the same it must be said that ignorance excuses no one; and someone can well be diligent in something concerning which he is ignorant whether it is a sin, yet he knows it insofar as it is a certain act which he strives and intends to perform.

To the other it must be said that Abraham was not a simoniac, but Ephron was, as Hieronymus says, because he knew that unless he \[Abraham\] gave something for the redemption of his \[Ephron’s\] right, he would afterwards be harassed by him. And if it please Hieronymus, it could be said that neither was a simoniac: because he did not buy a cemetery but rather a non-sacred place, namely the field of a certain peasant called Ephron; and he afterwards made a cemetery of it, because he buried there the bodies of the saints, in whom the Holy Spirit had rested; and this every man is always permitted to do.

To the other it must be said that the kingdom of heaven is not properly bought but merited. For what is properly bought passes from the ownership of the seller into the possession and ownership of the buyer. But here the one buying the kingdom of heaven passes into the ownership
