---
reading: albert-sentences-4.25
page: 90b
pdf_page: 100
sortable_pagination_id: 100.2
---

If perhaps you say that he errs in his operations—AGAINST this: because if this were so, then since every wicked person is ignorant, every wicked person would be a heretic, which is false: therefore, etc.

RESPONSE. To this it must be said, according to some, that heresy is to attribute to God what does not belong to him, as Augustinus says in the book *On the Trinity*; and this the simoniac does: therefore they call him a heretic, because he says it belongs to himself that his own things, and he himself, be set under a price. But it seems strange if this is what moved the holy Fathers.

TO THE OTHER it must be said that simony is a heresy: because simoniacs do not attribute this as asserting it \[to be so\], but rather as wishing in whatever way to possess \[spiritual things\]. Hence it seems one must say, as Hieronymus says and as was noted above, that heresy is incurred from words disorderly uttered, especially when those words concern spiritual things to be believed and hoped for. Now there are two things which we believe and hope concerning spiritual things: namely, that they exist, and that they exceed these worldly things infinitely in value, because they are the things which “eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, nor hath it entered into the heart of man, what things God hath prepared for them that love him” \[1 Cor 2:9\]. Against the first of these, then, heresy strictly taken sins. But against the second, simony sins directly: for it places spiritual things at a lower value than the temporal things for which it sells and buys them. And therefore it is called heresy.

TO THE FIRST, then, it must be said that heresy is there taken strictly, insofar as it is opposed to things to be believed on the side of the knowledge that is had of them, namely that they exist. And it is similarly taken by Augustinus above, dist. XIII. But simony sins rather against the value that one ought to believe is in spiritual things themselves.

And by this the solution to the whole is clear.
