---
reading: albert-sentences-4.25
page: 91a
pdf_page: 101
sortable_pagination_id: 101.1
---

## ARTICLE IV.

## Can an inferior commit simony together with a superior?

Third, it is asked whether an inferior can commit simony together with a superior, and particularly whether someone from the Church can do so with the Lord Pope.

And it seems that he cannot, because:

1. Jacob did not commit simony by buying what was owed to him by right of succession; rather, Esau did, who wished to give it away in another manner. Therefore, since all things that belong to the Churches are entrusted to the Lord Pope, it seems that he never commits simony by accepting something from ecclesiastical persons in exchange for spiritual goods, since otherwise they would not give those things to him.

2. Furthermore, no person has a right in ecclesiastical goods except through the jurisdiction of the Lord Pope. Therefore, just as that person receives \[those goods\], so the Pope can receive \[from him\].

ON THE CONTRARY:

1. Simony is called “simony” from the contract which Simon wished to make with Peter, who was Pope of the Apostles. Therefore, much more can simony be committed with other Popes.

2. Furthermore, one who assists in a mortal sin, and does not prevent it though he could, sins with an equal sin as the one committing it, as the Saints say. But the Pope knows that this person can commit simony with him and is committing it. Therefore, if he does not forbid it but rather assists by deceiving \[the party\] and granting what he requests, he himself sins with an equal sin. Therefore, he is made a simoniac.

REPLY. It must be said that in truth I readily think he can commit simony, and this seems to me beyond doubt when he sells a spiritual good.

TO THE FIRST, then, it must be said that the case is not
