---
reading: albert-sentences-4.25
page: 91b
pdf_page: 101
sortable_pagination_id: 101.2
---

similar. Rather, the right of primogeniture had been given to Jacob by the Lord, and therefore \[the transaction\] was a redemption from the harassment which \[Esau\] inflicted rather than a contract of purchase. But the goods of the Churches are not given to Prelates to possess, but to dispense for the use of others, namely the poor. Hence they cannot buy and sell, nor even give them freely to whomever they wish, but they are to be spent on the general needs of the Church or on the use of the poor or of the persons of the Church.

TO THE OTHER it must be said that it is true that no one has a right in the Churches except through him. Yet I do not think this is because those things are his own or that he confers them as his own, but because the patronage of their defense has been committed to him. Just as the lawgiver says that all things belong to the Emperor for \[their\] defense and protection. For, as Basilius says—and Aristotle had said before him—he is a tyrant who extorts all things for his own use and does not seek the welfare of his subjects.

## ARTICLE V.

## In what ways is simony committed?

Fourth, it is asked: in what ways is simony committed?

Many modes are set forth by the Jurists, which are noted in these verses:

Gift, tongue, fear, flesh, together with popular fame,
Do not allow the spiritual to be given freely.

Or thus:

Praise and kinship, violent entreaty, gifts,
Base servility—these sell spiritual right.

Let it therefore be inquired concerning these:

1. For praise is a gift of the mouth. Now praise, as the Philosopher says, properly
