---
reading: albert-sentences-4.25
page: 92a
pdf_page: 102
sortable_pagination_id: 102.1
---

perly pertains to the act of a virtue, and to the virtue insofar as the act proceeds from it, and it is sought from those who are good and who know us. But it is agreed that the good, insofar as they are virtuous, intend no evil; therefore they do not buy spiritual things; therefore simony is not committed through praise.

2. Furthermore, Praise is not a bodily gift, since reputation too is necessary even to the saints; therefore in praise something spiritual is not given for something bodily, but rather for something spiritual; therefore simony is not committed.

3. Likewise, kinship does not seem to constitute simony, because in every case of simony there is a contract, whereas kinship makes it so that a gift is given without a contract; therefore kinship undoes simony rather than constitutes it. The first point is proved by the fact that into the definition of simony there enters buying or selling, which do not occur without a contract. The second is established by the fact that kinship serves to foster friendship, which causes gifts to be given freely.

4. Furthermore, we see that the priesthood of the Old Testament was held by right of kinship, along with all the other grades of the Levites; therefore it seems that kinship too can be a ground for holding spiritual dignities in the Church; therefore it does not constitute simony.

5. In the same way an objection is raised concerning what he calls a violent request. For it seems to be a contradiction in terms: for if one requests, one does not compel; and if one compels, one does not request; for a request is made to incline a free will so that it may act on the petition, whereas violence excludes the will from its extremes, since the violent (as the Philosopher says) is that “whose principle is in another, the one acted upon contributing nothing of force”; and “principle” here denotes the efficient cause, as Damascenus says; therefore it seems that there is no such thing as a violent request or armed entreaties.

6. Further, an objection is raised concerning gifts. For the Philosopher says that “a gift is a giving that does not seek return”; therefore gifts do not seek that something be given to them in return for the gifts, neither spiritual nor temporal; therefore they do not constitute simony.
