---
reading: albert-sentences-4.25
page: 92b
pdf_page: 102
sortable_pagination_id: 102.2
---

7. Lastly, also concerning base service. For base service has to do with base matters; therefore if one were to serve in honorable matters, one would not seem to commit simony — and this is false; therefore it seems that none of these are what are said to constitute simony.

Furthermore, there is inquiry about the cases that arise daily, namely of hypocrites who sell long prayers for human praise: are they simoniacs?

And it seems that they are, because they give something spiritual for something temporal.

Furthermore, cloistered religious or canons do not indeed make a pact; yet they delay and weigh the circumstances so long, until they know with some probability what the one to be received will give to be made a confrere; and if it is much, they receive him; if it seems little, they refuse. The question therefore is: Are they simoniacs?

It seems that they are: because a cause (as the Philosopher says) is that which, when posited, the effect is posited, and when removed, the effect is removed; but among these men, when the expected benefit they calculate they will receive is posited, they offer the prebend, and when it fails, they do not confer it; therefore the temporal thing is the cause of conferring the prebend; therefore they commit simony.

If perhaps you say that they do not inquire in their own persons, but others do so on their behalf who are nevertheless their procurators — against this: It makes no difference whether one acts personally or through another, where the whole cause of the conferral of the prebend is the expectation of temporal gain; for through whomever it is done, they themselves expect this in return for the conferral; therefore simony is committed however it is done.

But if this be said \[in defense\]:

1. Then all religious houses would perish, because so many would be placed in them that their goods would not suffice; and this seems inadmissible.

2. Furthermore, It is not evil to induce men to almsgiving; therefore if they induce him to bestow an alms by receiving him, whom they would not otherwise receive, it is not evil; therefore it is not simony.
