---
reading: albert-sentences-4.25
page: 93a
pdf_page: 103
sortable_pagination_id: 103.1
---

Response. It seems one should say, as the jurists say, that the spiritual is of four kinds.

For there is one kind which cannot be sold because of its spirituality, since it has nothing in common with bodily things, and therefore cannot pass into the ownership of another, as the very gifts of the Holy Spirit, the virtues, and the beatitudes.

There is a second kind of the spiritual, which is essentially wholly spiritual, yet given in bodily things, such as sacramental graces: and therefore this indeed cannot be sold by its nature or by right, but it is often sold with respect to the bodily labor which is within the power of the ministers, though it is never sold without simony.

The third is not essentially spiritual, but rather bodily, though attributed to spiritual persons in order to sustain them in spiritual exercises, such as prebends and other revenues of the Churches: and therefore these are sold, but simony is committed in them by reason of the spiritual to which they are attributed.

In the fourth and final mode of spirituality, inanimate bodily things are called spiritual by which certain spiritual things are handled, such as vessels for the adornment of the house of God, like chalices, the censer, crosses, books, and the like: and only of these is it true that they can be sold without the commission of simony. But they differ, for either the Church sells to another Church, and then they can be sold whole with the price not increased for the consecration of the objects; or they are sold to lay persons, and then they must first be broken up and melted down by sacred persons, a prayer having been offered beforehand for pardon of the breaking. Cemeteries, however, appear to have a spiritual claim: either they are merely consecrated, or bodies are buried there. If they are merely consecrated, they say that they can be deconsecrated and reduced to other uses. But if the bodies of the blessed are buried there, since the ashes of the bodies cannot be separated from the rest of the earth, then just as the body of a Saint cannot be sold and reduced
