---
reading: albert-sentences-4.25
page: 93b
pdf_page: 103
sortable_pagination_id: 103.2
---

to other uses, on account of the Holy Spirit whose temple it was while he lived, so neither can the place of burial of that body be reduced to other uses.

Therefore it must be said to the first that one thing is that for which praise ought to be \[given\], and another is that for which it is \[actually given\]: for the Philosopher touches only on what ought to be praised, yet even the wicked is praised when he has done evil; and therefore, when the reason for giving something spiritual is praise, simony occurs.

To the next it must be said that popular praise has nothing spiritual about it: indeed it is more temporal even than time itself, since it is more rarefied and dissolves into the air; but the fame of the Saints belongs among spiritual things, and therefore is spiritual.

To the next it must be said that it is understood similarly, that kinship must be the cause and reason of giving: for if goodness of life were the cause and kinship only a concurrent cause, it would not be simony, since kinship is something bodily and derived from the flesh.

To the argument, however, it must be said that selling and buying are not taken so strictly in the definition of simony: but it is called selling when any price whatever causes spiritual things to be given, “price” being taken in a broad sense for any temporal thing that is the whole and sole cause of the giving.

To the next it must be said that the priesthood of the Old Testament did not have the Spirit, but was the shadow of the spiritual priesthood; whereas the New possesses the Spirit: and therefore the spiritual things of the new priesthood must be bestowed in the liberty of the Spirit.

To the next it must be said that violent entreaty is taken there for that which induces fear in a steadfast man. And by “fear” I mean fear of the loss of property, or injury to reputation or person. For when this is the cause of giving, simony is committed.

To the argument it must be said that “violent” is not taken so strictly here: but for violence here it is sufficient that the necessary be mixed with the violent, as is the throwing of goods into the sea in time of storm: for of such things the Philosopher says that
