---
reading: albert-sentences-4.25
page: 94b
pdf_page: 104
sortable_pagination_id: 104.2
---

as meaning a notable increase, such that the person received can be sustained without notable burden upon the others in that place. But if they do not increase, then they cannot receive him. But to receive him under a pact, especially when there is no necessity of the place, is openly simony.

To the argument it must be said that this does not constitute the cause of the giving, but rather necessity extorts it; for they would willingly give freely, and therefore they have an eye to this in the conferral.

To the authority of the Philosopher it must be said that in natural things what he says is true, but in voluntary matters it fails every day. For it may well be that I simply will something for a good and honorable cause, and yet I cannot; and then, if on some condition being supposed I act, and on that condition not being supposed I do not act, still this is not the cause of the action insofar as it proceeds from my will, as is plain to anyone.

And from this the solution to the whole is plain.

## G. The Division of Simoniacs.

The simoniacal heresy has a threefold division. For some are ordained simoniacally by simoniacs; others simoniacally by non-simoniacs; others non-simoniacally by simoniacs. Whence Pope Nicholas: We establish a decree concerning the threefold simoniacal heresy, that is, concerning simoniacs simoniacally ordaining or ordained, and concerning simoniacs simoniacally \[ordained\] by non-simoniacs, and concerning simoniacs non-simoniacally \[ordained\] by simoniacs. Simoniacs simoniacally ordained or ordaining, according to the canons, shall fall from their proper grade. Simoniacs also simoniacally ordained by non-simoniacs shall likewise be removed from office. But those not simoniacally ordained by simoniacs we mercifully permit, through the imposition of hands, to remain in office for the necessity of the times.
