---
reading: albert-sentences-4.25
page: 96b
pdf_page: 106
sortable_pagination_id: 106.2
---

that this is not understood of those who are hidden, whom the Church still tolerates. But today this scarcely has a place, because almost no one except a money-changer has a place in the temple.

## I. Concerning the age of those to be ordained, Pope Nicholas decreed as follows.

The sacred canons, he says, have established that a subdeacon should not be ordained before fourteen years, nor a deacon before twenty-five, nor a presbyter before thirty. Thereafter, if he be worthy, he can be chosen to the episcopate; and we likewise command that this be observed in the same manner. Likewise, Fabianus: If anyone has not completed thirty years of age, let him by no means be ordained a presbyter, even if he be very worthy, because the Lord himself was baptized at thirty years of age, and thus began to teach.

## ARTICLE VII. Whether the canons have rightly established the age of those to be ordained, given that it is nevertheless not observed?

Next there is an inquiry concerning what is said there: “The sacred canons, he says, etc.”

For today this is especially not observed in the religious orders; therefore it seems that they violate the canons of the holy fathers, and this is a mortal sin.

Response. It must be said that, just as in matrimony malice sometimes supplies for age, so conversely in the religious orders gravity of conduct and discipline supply for age — especially given that what is said here pertains to those who are promoted not only to orders, but also to jurisdiction, such as archdeacons, presbyters, and bishops.

And let these things be said by us concerning Order for the present time.
