---
reading: gerhoh-simoniacs
page: 261
pdf_page: 275
sortable_pagination_id: 275
---

would they be counted among the heirs of the kingdom of God, as our Jesus says: “For the son of the handmaid shall not be heir with my son.” On which Augustinus, commenting, says: “The Church says: ‘Cast out heresies and the sons of the handmaid; for heretics shall not be heirs together with Catholics.’ But why shall they not be heirs? Were they not born? And if they have baptism, will baptism make them heirs? Pride would exclude them from the inheritance. For by the same merciful word and by the same sacrament you do not attain to that same inheritance of eternal life, unless you do what pertains to the Catholic expulsion \[of heresy\].” In these words of the blessed Augustinus and in the rest of his writings, examined carefully, it is quietly noted what effect of the sacraments he asserts to be fully present among heretics — namely no other than that which we may call passive. By that name we indicate not the effect that the sacraments produce, but that by which sacraments are made to be sacraments, that is, signs of sacred realities: as the water of baptism is a sign of the Holy Spirit, or as the holy oil in the ordination of a bishop is a sign of the Holy Spirit, or as the bread of the sacrifice is a sign of unity, in that just as that one loaf is made from many grains, and just as the wine flows together from many grapes, so the Church is constituted from many persons into one through the unity of faith. Now we say that the Church, one, is signified by that bread — not insofar as it is offered and consecrated, but insofar as it is made from many grains as has been said. For insofar as it is consecrated, it does not signify the individual body of the Lord, but is the body of the Lord, with the Word of God having passed into it through faith in his passion, resurrection, and ascension. For the Lord does not say “this signifies,” but “This is my body.” That bread is therefore one thing, and signifies another. For it is the body of the Lord, but it signifies the one Church, which, although it too is the body of the Lord, is nevertheless a different body of the Lord from the one that redeems. The body of the Lord that redeems is different from the body of the Lord that is redeemed. The body of the Lord that is also the Lord — of which Mary says: “They have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him” — is different from that body of the Lord which cannot be called Lord or God, although it is the body of the Lord. The body of the Lord by which we are redeemed is that individual body of which Christ said: “This is my body, which will be given up for you and for many for the forgiveness of sins.” The body of the Lord that is the Church, however, is not one individual body, nor is it the body that redeems, but it is, through one faith, one body — the Church, one in many individual members or persons, redeemed by the body of Christ. This Church the bread of the sacrifice signifies and therefore is and is called a sacrament, that is, the sign of a sacred reality. For the unity of the Church is a sacred reality, which that bread signifies in this: that it is made from many grains and made into one thing. The same thing could be signified by any bread made from many grains; yet the holy Church venerates this signification — as the sign of a sacred reality, as a sacrament, indeed as a true sacrament — more fittingly in that bread which is set upon the sacred altar, and over which the word of Christ is recited according to the rite of the Church. And because both heretics and Catholics who sacrifice according to the ecclesiastical rite recite this in one and the same manner, both alike equally represent the sacrament, that is, the sign of the sacred reality. For what the bread offered by a Catholic priest signifies is the very same thing that the bread offered by a heretical and simoniacal priest according to the rite of the Church signifies. And in a wondrous manner, that bread signifies unity even where unity itself is manifestly absent. For the unity of the Church cannot be both within and without: it exists in the one Church as an undivided unity. The sign or sacrament of unity, however, can exist even outside \[the Church’s\]
