---
reading: lombard-4-25
page: 910
pdf_page: 374
sortable_pagination_id: 374
---

## Chap. IV. On Those Who Claim to Purchase Material Things and Not Spiritual Ones.

264 “If some object that they are not purchasing the consecrations themselves, but the very things that proceed from consecration, they are shown to be utterly foolish. For whoever sells either of these — without which the other cannot be had — does not cease to sell them both.”

## Chap. V. On the Distinction Among Simoniacs.

265 The Simoniac heresy admits of a threefold distinction. For some are ordained simoniacally by Simoniacs; others simoniacally by non-Simoniacs; and others non-simoniacally by Simoniacs.

Hence Pope Nicolaus \[declares\]: “We establish a decree concerning the Simoniac heresy in its three forms — that is, concerning Simoniac ordainers and ordinands acting simoniacally, concerning those ordained simoniacally by non-Simoniacs, and concerning non-Simoniacs ordained simoniacally by Simoniacs. Simoniac ordainers who act simoniacally are to be deposed from their rank according to the canons; those likewise ordained simoniacally by non-Simoniacs are similarly to be removed from office; but those who are not Simoniacs and have been ordained by Simoniacs without simony, we permit out of mercy, and in view of the needs of the time, to remain in office through the laying on of hands.” “This is to be understood of those who are ordained by Simoniacs without knowing them to be Simoniacs. What makes them Simoniacs is not guilt of the crime, but the ordination of a Simoniac.”
