---
reading: tuckney-sermon-38
page: 644
pdf_page: 556
sortable_pagination_id: 556
---

# Sermon XXXVIII. Matthew 24:45–46.

But that Reward is the last part of my text. Before we reach it, we must consider our Work — and that is the second part, which (having dealt with our Office, our being Servants, and yet made Rulers over God’s Household) we come to in the words τὸ διδόναι αὐτοῖς τὴν τροφὴν ἐν καιρῷ [to give them their food in due season]. It is to give them their Food in due season.

1. I will not dwell on what some nonetheless observe from the word διδόναι — that it is a *giving*, not a *selling* of this Food to the Household. Christ once whipped buyers and sellers out of the Temple, but later ages complained bitterly that they had gotten back in. This Food for the Household is the Master’s Provision, merely placed in the Steward’s hands for his Household’s use. All your grace, wisdom, and ability to dispense the Word and other Ordinances, to govern the Church, etc. are God’s Gifts — entrusted to you not to enjoy, or to make a market of for your own gain or applause, but for the Glory of your Master and the service of his Spouse. And therefore, although the laborer is worthy of his hire (Luke 10:7), yet you must never on the one hand be so mercenary as to regard your maintenance as the hire you aim at and for which you dispense God’s Ordinances. No — in this sense, freely you have received, and therefore freely give.

Nor should the People be so base as to think that, having paid their pittance, they have bought you as slaves — and like savvy buyers have made a fine purchase of the Word, and the
