---
reading: tuckney-sermon-38
page: 645
pdf_page: 557
sortable_pagination_id: 557
---

the rest of God’s Ordinances — which they accordingly claim as their due, and should they fall short of them (even through their own fault), you shall fall short of yours. But how unworthy of you — whether as a Minister or as a Christian — are such base, simoniacal traffickings: something akin to Judas selling and the Jews buying Christ for thirty pieces of silver, a goodly price “wherewith I was prized at of them,” says the Lord (Zechariah 11:13). The Apostle would lift us to higher thoughts when he calls the provision for Church Officers not Wages but Honor (1 Timothy 5:17) — to be freely and honorably given, not as a recompense for their labor, but as an honorable token of love and respect; not as the price of the Gospel, not all that we intend to give for it or that ministers should have in view when dispensing it. God expects far more for it from the People, and his Ministers should have far more in view in their administration of it. They are first — διδόναι — to give the Household their Food in due season.

2. The second thing to observe is what they are to give, expressed in the word τροφήν — their Food and Nourishment, by which Jerome means *Cibaria doctrinarum* [the provisions of doctrine]; others, *verbi & Sacramentorum pabulum* [the sacred food of the Word and Sacraments] — not excluding either the wholesome medicine of Church-Censures (for it is medicine as well as food, which we pray for when we ask for our daily bread, Matthew 6:11), or the due administration of any other part of Church-Government. For as Christ ποιμαίνει [feeds / shepherds] while he rules (Matthew 2:6) — Kings are ποιμένες λαῶν [shepherds of peoples] — so we may properly be said to Feed by Governing as well as Teaching. With reference to both, Paul in his charge to the Elders of Ephesus calls upon them ποιμαίνειν τὴν ἐκκλησίαν τοῦ Θεοῦ [to feed the Church of God] (Acts 20:28). That is their task — as you cannot conceive otherwise if you consider:

1. Either the Master of the House and his royal bounty. He would not have his Family starved, and therefore takes care that they shall be fed. “In our Father’s house there is bread enough” (Luke 15:17).

2. Or his Servant’s Office and Duty. They are elsewhere called Shepherds, and a Pastor’s work is to feed the flock (Zechariah 11:7). They are called Nurses, and they suckle and cherish their children (1 Thessalonians 2:7). In the passage of Luke parallel to the text, they are called οἰκονόμοι [Stewards], whose whole work both here and there is summed up in this
