---
reading: tuckney-sermon-38
page: 647
pdf_page: 559
sortable_pagination_id: 559
---

It is food — not the poison of heresies and corrupt doctrines, or of destructive administrations. Your power is given for edification (2 Corinthians 10:8), and not for destruction. It is τροφή — solid, nourishing food — not the froth of airy notions, or our fine-spun, high-flown speculations; not the trash, hay, and stubble of our own fancies, humors, and passions; nor even the rarest flowers of our wide reading and elaborate elegancies. The sheep of Christ’s pasture tend to feed on more wholesome herbs, letting such flowers stand by. The Word is the immortal seed that begets us (1 Peter 1:23) — these being too dilute to be generative, as are those of the philosopher’s books: *animum non dant, quia non habent* — and the sincere milk of 1 Peter 2:2 that nourishes us. From these empty things we can suck nothing but wind, which makes us swell, and that is all. What is the chaff to the wheat? (Jeremiah 23:28). It is τροφή, ἄρτος — the solid, nourishing bread of life — and therefore, away with all such kickshaws.

3. The third thing observable in this second part is that what Matthew here calls τροφήν, their food, Luke in the parallel passage calls σιτομέτριον, *demensum*, their portion of meat — which Agur phrases (though in another sense, Proverbs 30:8) “food convenient for me.” There are in God’s household young babes as well as grown men. The same dispensation will not suit all, either in kind or measure. Some are sick and weak, others healthy and strong; some sick of lighter fevers, others of more putrid, perhaps hectical or malignant complaints. What will feed the child will starve the man; and what is food to the healthy may be poison to the sick; and what will heal a whitlow will not cure a gangrene. As therefore God in his greater house of the world has such both store and variety that he answers the want and desire of every living thing (Psalm 145:16), so in this presence-chamber of his Church he has so fully fitted and furnished it that in his Word, Sacraments, Censures, and other administrations his manna is suited to every palate: he has a fit medicine for every malady, both a rod and a pot of manna in his ark. But now to know which of them to use, and to whom — this ὀρθοτομία, this right dividing of the word of truth (2 Timothy 2:15), so that the proud sinner may not presume nor the fainting Christian droop; the right administration of the keys, that no false pretender, for all his great shows, may be let in, nor the weakest believer, for all his many weaknesses, kept out; that we do not on
