---
reading: tuckney-sermon-38
page: 648
pdf_page: 560
sortable_pagination_id: 560
---

the one hand, in too rigorous a way kill a fly on our brother’s forehead with a beetle, nor on the other, through ignorance, inadvertency, self-interest, or the like, blow whole a corrupt ulcer that has only a thin skin over it. This is one of the hardest parts of our work. hic labor, huc opus, & τις προς ταυτα; Lord, who is sufficient for these things? 2 Corinthians 2:16. This would call for in ministers a more diligent inspection into, and knowledge of, the state of our flock (Proverbs 27:23) than I fear any of us has attained to, or many of us have endeavored after; for which we had great need this day to be deeply humbled for our want and neglect. This requires all the qualifications which Christ here mentions — faithfulness, wisdom, sincerity, constancy, instancy — which (I said) are contained in the third part of the text, so worthy to be sought, and yet so hard to be found; so that if all of you should be like some of us, Christ may in both respects ask the question here: Who is that faithful and wise servant, whom his Lord shall make ruler over his household, to give them their food, or due portion of meat, in due season?

4. Which last words, εν Καιρω — in season — is the fourth particular in this second part of the text.

Food is to be given, and that in a fit proportion, and also in a fit season. This is the way with orderly men and in well-ordered families (Ecclesiastes 10:17), and God would not have his house worse ordered. The wise physician, as he weighs the dose he gives, so he calculates the time at which he should most seasonably give it. It is the wisdom of God as governor of the world, that as he satisfies the desires of his creatures in giving them their food, so he gives it in due season (Psalm 145:15); and accordingly, as the lawgiver of his church, you shall observe how punctual he is in the law to require his ordinances to be observed in their season — Exodus 13:10, Leviticus 23:4, Numbers 9:3,7,13 & 28:2. He is now no whit less careful of it in the dispensation of the gospel. Ευκαιρως ακαιρως is the apostolic precept, 2 Timothy 4:2 — be instant in season. He adds indeed “and out of season too,” though that phrase is absent from some copies; but if you take it in, you must understand it of what the wisdom of the flesh accounts out of season — as, that it will not now suit the minister’s profit, or the people’s occasions or humors. For otherwise it is both the faithfulness and wisdom of ministers and other church officers heedfully and watchfully to watch and catch all the fittest opportunities in which they may act most seasonably:

1. Hard
