---
reading: hus-simony
page: 100
pdf_page: 126
sortable_pagination_id: 126
---

and tell him to cast out the scandal; and if he were unwilling to do so, then they should shun him as a manifest sinner and one bound for hell — so Christ has commanded. Beyond that, they should bring the matter to the bishop, so that he might set it right; if the bishop took no heed, then they should withhold their tithes from him and not attend his mass: for it is ordained that no one should attend the mass of a priest of whom they know without doubt that he has a wife or concubine; and this ordinance has been issued under penalty of excommunication — not that the mass would not be holy, but so that the priest should not minister unworthily, and so that the people should not be partakers in his sin. But if all this were of no avail, or perhaps he does not minister — as is indeed his practice — and has enough to eat without their giving: then they should deal with him as Saint Paul commanded concerning the fornicator, of whom Saint John Chrysostom says, according to the report, that he was a priest. What did Paul command? He said: “Purge out the old leaven!” — meaning that fornicator; for he says beforehand: He who has so acted, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, when you are gathered together, and with the spirit and power of our Lord Jesus, to deliver such a one unto Satan for the destruction of the flesh, that the spirit may be saved in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.

Behold, Saint Paul has now given the teaching of how all together should cast out a manifest fornicator from among themselves like old leaven. But people say: We can get on well enough without this, what does it matter to us? it does no harm to us! Saint Paul immediately replies: “Your glorying is not good. Do you not know that a little
