---
reading: hus-simony
page: 102
pdf_page: 127
sortable_pagination_id: 127
---

leaven — that is, a small amount of yeast — leavens the whole lump? Purge out the old leaven!” — Behold, he shows that they had no right to rejoice, tolerating him; for they had been leavened by him — that is, corrupted by his sin, being partakers in it by their negligence. Therefore Saint Paul says to them: “And you have become puffed up” — that is, by your negligence — “and have not rather mourned that he who has done this deed might be taken away from among you.” And how can the lord and the congregation be excused when they take no heed that such an adversary of God should not abandon his wickedness — through whom others defend their own sin, and looking upon him, likewise sin?

### \[L\]

The apostles of Christ ordained that no one who had committed fornication after baptism should be a priest, and also that a priest who commits fornication should be deprived of priesthood; and yet the apostles’ successors — the bishops — are themselves fornicators and do not restrain others from fornication! Like father, like son; the son gives and the father takes money so that the son may have a wife; one sells the sin and the other buys it, \[paying\] a kopa \[sixty groschen\] per year for the wife. And in Moravia once, as they say, a parish priest gave a kopa \[in payment\] for each cradle; therefore they called this fee cunabulales — in Czech: pokolebné \[cradle-money\]. And in Hungary every parish priest pays for each child \[born to his concubine\]; and the more children he has, the more money he gives to the bishop. So I was told by those who had been in Hungary. And are these to be called shepherds — robbing Christ’s sheep and loading them onto the devil’s whores? Taking the goods of the people, their alms and tithes, and offering them to the devil! And when they should go before and lead the people after Christ, instead they lead them by evil exam-
