---
reading: hus-simony
page: 103
pdf_page: 128
sortable_pagination_id: 128
---

ple into the devil’s maw! When they should worthily offer Christ’s body to God for themselves and for the people, they dare — like Judas, that faithless traitor — to receive his holy body unworthily! Woe, woe to such shepherds — truly to thieves and robbers and ravening wolves! And I do not know how the holy church will rid itself of them, unless the community applies itself to the task in the manner that Christ and Saint Paul have prescribed. May the merciful Savior grant that we all guard ourselves from sins, that they \[the clergy\] leave their wives and follow Christ in virtues, forsaking the evil getting of benefices and wealth, and likewise the evil spending thereof, and giving the people instruction by good deeds and by the word of God!

### \[M\]

I should also mention that in the exchanging of parishes there is much simony and cunning in lease-holding. And since they always anew purchase the cure of souls for each church — who can excuse them from sin? Likewise: someone leases a church and grazes himself in the city without labor, while the hireling is diligent to shear and milk the sheep, and commands them to put thirty masses here, then asks for ten masses, then orders five groschen to be placed at the great cross on Good Friday for the five wounds of Christ, then commands three pounds of wax to be given to God and takes it for himself to sell, then orders fine candles to be offered so that he can remelt them. Where does he stop, before he has recouped the money he must pay from the lease? Christ says: “The thief comes only to steal.” Who is the thief? Christ says: “He who enters other than through the door
