---
reading: hus-simony
page: 108
pdf_page: 134
sortable_pagination_id: 134
---

and priests increases; for everyone wants an easy life and to grow rich. Hence servants are dear, fields lie waste, there are no laborers, and every common peasant generally wants his son to be a prelate. And if priests were to live as the saints once lived, \[20\] there would be few of them! And it would be better to have a few of us who are good than to have malefactors everywhere in abundance, as St. John Chrysostom says, that one saint is better than a world full of sinners. \[192\] And because we sin on both sides in this way — laity and clergy alike, fathers with evil intent and mothers in sending \[children\] to school, and sons with evil intent in learning — therefore on both sides we contribute little to the holy Church. Therefore, father and mother, if you wish your child to be a good priest, pray to God that he may succeed to his glory and to your child’s salvation and your own, and to the benefit of the holy Church. And you, scholar, learn for the same purpose; for if you learn in order to be rich, then greed leads you; if for worldly honor, then pride leads you; if for carnal pleasure, then lust leads you. Likewise in the priesthood. But if you learn for salvation, and enter the priesthood and live well, then your learning is good and your priesthood holy.

### \[C\]

But perhaps you say: Since the clergy are so entangled on every side, it would not be fitting to desire either the priesthood or the episcopate — and that is contrary to reason, which shows that this estate is the most worthy, which no one can rightly hold and enjoy except through
