---
reading: hus-simony
page: 11
pdf_page: 36
sortable_pagination_id: "11"
---

Christ’s emissaries beguile popes and people into thinking that things are as they say.

In this blasphemy is the position of Antichrist, by which he will exalt himself above all that is called God — that is, above both the divinity of Christ and Christ as man — seizing divine power and rejecting the humility and poverty and other virtues and labors of Christ; so that, just as beloved Christ, dwelling here below, was in all things obedient to the Father, so this one will be in all things contrary to Christ; and therefore he is called Antichrist, that is, the adversary of Christ. Of him I shall write something, if the Lord God permits.\[12\]

And for the heresy of blasphemy they killed the Lord Jesus, saying that he blasphemed; for when they wished to stone him as a blasphemer, he said to them: “I have shown you many good works from my Father; for which of them do you stone me? The Jews answered him: It is not for a good work that we stone you, but for blasphemy, and because you, being a man, make yourself God.”\[13\] And again, when the bishop Caiaphas questioned him, saying: “I adjure you by the living God, that you tell us whether you are the Christ, the Son of God. Jesus said to him: You have said it. But I tell you, from this time forward you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of divine power and coming on the clouds of heaven. Then the bishop tore his garments, saying: He has blasphemed! What further witnesses do we need? Behold, you have now heard the blasphemy; what is your judgment? And they answered: He deserves death! And immediately they spat in his face and struck him on the back of the neck —
