---
reading: hus-simony
page: 110
pdf_page: 135
sortable_pagination_id: "110"
---

\[the right\] will; for St. Paul says: \[193\] “He that desires the episcopate desires a good work.” — Know here, according to the teaching of St. John Chrysostom, \[192\] that in those words — bishop, priest, pastor — two things are joined together: the first is labor, and the second is dignity. The labor, as St. Paul says, is to be desired; but the latter is not to be desired. Therefore St. Paul says: “He that desires the episcopate desires a good work”; \[193\] that is: if anyone intends to be a bishop, he ought to desire it with the intention of wishing to serve the holy Church by his labor. Therefore St. Gregory says, concerning that word of St. Paul, that in that time St. Paul’s word was observed \[in practice\] when the one who was to be a bishop had to be ready at any hour to go to martyrdom. \[194\] For at the beginning of the Christian faith, bishops were the first to suffer martyrdom. The proof is in Christ himself, in his apostles, and in many other holy bishops. But now that the episcopate has become entangled in wealth, they now desire wealth and the episcopate for the sake of wealth; and since bishops no longer fear martyrdom, they rush boldly toward the episcopate. Formerly there was no one to be found who would be a bishop; for one had to be poor and ready in an instant for martyrdom: but now, when a bishop dies, whoever has any prospect of it steps forward to contend for the bishopric! Just as after the death of the priest Zbyněk of blessed memory \[195\] there were no fewer than twenty-four who contended for the archbishopric — and we had written them down by name. Let him consider carefully, whoever wishes to desire the priesthood or
