---
reading: hus-simony
page: 111
pdf_page: 136
sortable_pagination_id: 136
---

the episcopate: first sift your own conscience. Are you of holy life, as far as you can hope? Are you not stained by mortal sin? Are you equipped by learning to instruct the people, and by your life \[prepared\] to undergo death? Does the glory of God and the salvation of yourself and others draw you? Then commend yourself to God, whether he will have you. And when you draw near, take care that simony, pride, pleasure, and greed — not to mention hypocrisy — do not seize upon you; and do not count yourself more worthy of that office than others. When you have so prepared yourself, once you enter the episcopate, you will quickly defile it through its many difficulties! And recognizing this, the saints \[20\] fled before election to the episcopate, as did St. Gregory; and St. Mark the Evangelist cut off his own thumb so that he would not be made a bishop; \[196\] and St. Leo the pope cut off his own hand, because he had a carnal impulse and had touched the lips of a woman while giving her the body of God \[i.e., communion\], holding that he was no longer worthy to celebrate Mass and to distribute the body of God. O how \[160\] few today hide themselves from the episcopate, cutting off their thumbs to escape the bishopric! Also today the dove is slow to show anyone: \[197\] for the window is already obscured by the wealth of the rabble!

### \[D\]

From these considerations we may observe that it is uncertain and fearful for a layman — whether prince, lord, or any other — as also for a cleric, to hold the right of presentation to a bishopric, parish, altar, or any other benefice: for if he does not give \[it\] to a more worthy person, though he could obtain one, or if he does not
