---
reading: hus-simony
page: 114
pdf_page: 139
sortable_pagination_id: 139
---

given to the poor, those holding the right of presentation sin gravely by not giving them. For one person establishes \[a benefice\] for cloth to be purchased for the poor, or for appointed food, or other alms — and then they keep it for themselves, or give it to their own friends and servants, or to others out of favoritism, and as though giving what is their own they wish to have the credit, while they take no account whatsoever of the most destitute wretches. And in this sin are monks, parish priests, and burghers generally: monks, having accumulated great alms to distribute to the poor — money, cloth, provisions — they do not distribute them; parish priests, \[required\] to feed the poor on Ember days or at other times, do not feed them; and burghers likewise. And so they together pull the devil’s cart like three horses, which he lashes with greed, driving them into his barn. And of such people it is written thus in ecclesiastical ordinance: \[200\] “Priests or laymen who wish to withhold or take away the goods of their father and mother or of other people that have been bequeathed to the poor — as murderers of the poor, and as thieves and sacrilegious persons, let them be accursed, excluded from the churches, until they make restitution!”

Aha, recognize yourselves, you plunderers of poor people, murderers, thieves, and sacrilegious persons! For though men do not curse you, the Lord God curses you. And he will execute that curse on Judgment Day, when he says: \[201\] “Depart, ye cursed, into everlasting fire.” He will ask: Why? He will answer, saying: “I was hungry and you gave me no food, I was thirsty and you gave me no drink, I was naked and you clothed me not. And they will say: Lord, when did we see you hungry, thirsty, and naked, and not
