---
reading: hus-simony
page: 115
pdf_page: 141
sortable_pagination_id: 141
---

he might leave a perpetual alms: for nowhere in Holy Scripture is it written that people should establish perpetual alms, but it is written that they should give their alms among the poor while alive, so that dying, they might at once receive the reward of eternal joy. Therefore foolish are those people — and especially clergy — who obtain money by whatever means, in order to establish perpetual alms. Likewise foolish are those who hoard lawfully earned money in order to establish perpetual alms, and seeing those in need, do not help them; for such people sin gravely and mortally. For the apostle St. John says: \[203\] “He that has worldly goods and sees his brother in need and closes his bowels of compassion” — that is, gives him nothing — “how does the love of God dwell in him?” As if he would say: it does not dwell in him at all, that is, he does not love God, since he allows his brother to suffer want when he could help him. And there is also proof from what was said before, that Christ says: \[201\] “I was hungry and you did not feed me — depart, ye cursed, into everlasting fire!” And who can describe all the quarrels, lawsuits, and murders that arise from these perpetual alms, and the other sins? And one person takes upon himself a great responsibility, the trusteeship of those alms, and holds it right until death, and on his deathbed entrusts it to another, thinking \[206\] that he would do what \[the first\] himself would not do, though he could have; and that other holds and uses it likewise right up until his death, and so ever further, until there is nothing left of them. Wretched people! How \[160\] they are bereft of reason, wishing that others would do what they themselves, though able, were unwilling to do for themselves! But a faithful lover of God gives
