---
reading: hus-simony
page: 12
pdf_page: 38
sortable_pagination_id: 38
---

God the Holy Spirit — who from supreme goodness wisely and humbly governs his household — is dishonored by accursed simony, which is contrary to his order; for the simonist opposes the Holy Spirit, intending to disrupt the good order of the Holy Spirit and with it all peace. And since, according to the testimony of Christ, the sin against the Holy Spirit is unforgivable both in this world and in the next,\[16\] I shall write about this sin. For simony is a spiritual leprosy, which is not easily expelled from the soul except by some special miracle of God. And since this leprosy passes from one person to another, so that one simonist corrupts many others, faithful Christians must be diligently on their guard against it. And since a person is not easily guarded against an evil he does not know, simony must therefore be made known.

Simony, as the word sounds, is the buying of holy things. And since the word “buyer” denotes both one who buys and one who sells, so likewise the word “simonist” denotes both one who sells a holy thing and one who buys it. *And so simony means both the buying and the selling of holy things.* And since there can be a good buying or selling of holy things — for a person may buy for himself the kingdom of heaven — therefore not every buying or selling is simony. Hence it was said at the outset that simony is wicked consent to the exchange of a spiritual thing for a non-spiritual thing. And since a person may rightly buy the good kingdom of heaven, which is
