---
reading: hus-simony
page: 120
pdf_page: 145
sortable_pagination_id: 145
---

seat of Moses, for no such thing exists; but according to the words of Saint Augustine and other saints, by “the seat” understand the dignity in the ecclesiastical order in which popes, bishops, and other priests stand — and especially masters, as the Savior says.

### \[B\]

He commands that they be obeyed, saying: Whatever they shall tell you, do; but do not act according to their deeds. Here Saint Augustine says: What they speak as mine, do that; but if they speak what is their own, do it not. And that is what Christ means, saying: “But do not act according to their deeds.” Their deeds are those that are contrary to God’s commandment and his counsel. Therefore people must be diligent and discerning as to when they do God’s commandment and counsel, and when they command something not contrary to God’s will — so as to observe and do that; but what would be against God’s will, they should not obey. And in confirmation that this is what Christ means, Saint Mark says thus: “A great multitude heard him gladly. And he said to them in his teaching: Beware of the masters, who desire to walk in white garments, and to be greeted in the marketplace, and to have the first seats in the schools, and the first places at feasts.”

Behold, you have it now that the Savior says: “Beware diligently of the masters!” And what are they to beware of? Only that they do not follow them in their evil deeds and do not obey them in evil. And when Christ goes on to say why the people should not follow them — saying that they speak and do not act — in this he touches upon all the
