---
reading: hus-simony
page: 122
pdf_page: 147
sortable_pagination_id: "122"
---

established that mastership — that one could not attain it without possessing those trappings! \[C\] Therefore, so that people might guard against this pride, the Savior says to his disciples and the crowds: “But you, do not desire to be called masters, for there is one master among you” — Christ. On this Saint Jerome says that Christ here forbids evil desires, so that no one should out of pride desire to be called master. And indeed I cannot see how anyone could worthily be a master, except with the intention of having a readier place to teach God’s truth, and of speaking truth more boldly and defending it more boldly. But I have already found that simple poor priests and poor laypeople and women defend truth more valiantly than doctors of Holy Scripture, who flee from truth in fear and dare not speak it. And I myself was such a one — alas! — in that I did not dare to preach truth directly and openly. \[D\] And why are we like this? Only because we are cowardly, fearing to lose worldly praise and favor, and others fearing to lose their benefices; and above all fearing, for truth’s sake, disgrace from men and bodily suffering. We are like the Jewish leaders of whom Saint John says in his Gospel: “Among the rulers many believed in him; but because of the scribes they did not confess him, lest they should be put out of the synagogue; for they loved the praise of men more than the praise of God.” — Behold, you have it now: they believed, but they did not confess, fearing excommunication, lest they should have shame; and they preferred to preserve for themselves the praise of men rather than of God. O, how
