---
reading: hus-simony
page: 125
pdf_page: 151
sortable_pagination_id: 151
---

of God the Son, and that is heresy. For in the Godhead no Person is lesser than another in dignity; and if the Holy Spirit were to serve God the Father and God the Son, then he would be lesser. And this is contrary to that passage of Scripture: Equal is the Father, equal the Son, equal also the Holy Spirit — that is, in dignity. And the simonist, giving or receiving bodily gifts in exchange for gifts of the Holy Spirit, though he does not say so with his mouth, asserts in deed that the grace of the Holy Spirit can be purchased for money, and thus places it as lesser than a creature — and that is more grievous than to say that the Holy Spirit is a servant of God the Father — and therefore simony is more grievous than the heresy of Macedonius. But alas, simonists do not heed this and do not perceive it, for avarice has blinded them!

### \[G\]

Then the fifth way in which someone is a participant in simony is by failure to help — in that, having the power given by God, one is unwilling to apply that power against this sin, to prevent it from advancing, or to have it stopped. For since one sees one’s neighbor sinking in sin toward damnation, and has God-given power to help him, as one member of the same body \[helps\] another — how can he be absolved from that sin? For since, if a man were to see another drowning in water and, being able to help him, should not help, he would be guilty of his death: so much the more in spiritual matters, if he does not render assistance lest \[the neighbor\] drown in his soul.

### \[H\]

The sixth way someone is a participant in simony
