---
reading: hus-simony
page: 136
pdf_page: 161
sortable_pagination_id: "136"
---

ed one. These men do not follow the apostles in election, so as to choose a man full of the Holy Spirit, or one who would shine above others in holy life, in knowledge and learning. These men do not heed the Scripture spoken above concerning how he should be elected, nor Saint Jerome,243) who says: Let such a one be elected to prelacy — that is, to elevation above others — in comparison with whom others, when set beside him, are as a flock. And Saint Augustine says: 244) He who has not learned to govern lesser offices should not be elected to the dignity of a bishop; for the governance of a ship should not be entrusted to one who has not known how to hold the rudder. Thus Saint Augustine. — O dear Savior! You see that they elect not the best of all, but the least steadfast!

\[B\] But should someone say: You say that no one should press himself forward for a dignity; and on the other hand you say that the best man should be elected; who then will be bishop or parish priest, since no one will put himself forward, and the patron does not know the best man, nor do the electors? To this I say that although no one without God’s command should press himself forward for a dignity, yet he may accept it when called; but in this he must have both understanding and desire: understanding, that being elevated toward God he should lead Christ’s sheep according to God’s law in his way; and his desire must be pure, so that every sin which might hinder that office should be cast out, and above all pride, covetousness, and sins of
