---
reading: hus-simony
page: 137
pdf_page: 162
sortable_pagination_id: 162
---

the flesh; and third, that he should have a great eagerness to fulfill God’s will in that office and to make progress as far as he is able. But who is that man today? — and we will praise him.

### \[C\]

Now, as to the other party — the one who grants a dignity or elects to it. Here know that election is twofold: The first is an election of inclination toward a good object arising from natural desire. And by this election a man chooses God, virtue, the grace of God, and blessedness, for he has by nature a desire for those things. And this election shall remain in the saints forever. And to this election Holy Scripture is very well suited, for so great is the certainty in this election that it is impossible for the electors to err.

Then the second election is that by which a man is inclined to choose the better side. And this election is again twofold: The first is called prudent election, when a man with true intent chooses the course that seems to him, according to God, the more righteous or better for salvation. And thus the elect sons of God are led by the Holy Spirit in their works, even though Scripture does not indicate to them that they must act in such a way. Therefore Saint Paul says to the Romans: 245) “As many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God” — that is, he leads the way of blessedness. And in such works as are not set forth in Scripture, the counsel of the Holy Spirit is so greatly needed that even saints may sometimes err. As occurred between Saint Paul and Saint Barnabas, when Paul was of one mind and Barna-
