---
reading: hus-simony
page: 140
pdf_page: 165
sortable_pagination_id: "140"
---

and the disorderly placing of unworthy prelates over the people. And this they would most readily accomplish if they did not allow the alms of their fathers to be ill spent, but took them into their own power and protection, so that those yet to come would not traffic in them. For just as fire always burns and consumes as long as it has something to consume, so the fire of the devil, by which all the world, cast down into it, always burns, burns as long as it has fuel to feed that fire. Therefore Saint John says in his epistle 249) that “all the world lies in the wicked one — that is, in the wicked fire” — which is evil desire; and that desire cannot more readily be quenched than when what it craves is taken away. For example, someone has a burning desire toward a beautiful woman, or a woman toward a man. Why? Because they see each other often and perhaps consort together. Therefore that desire will soon be quenched when the woman is taken from the man and the man taken from the woman by death. Why? Because the man will no longer have any expectation of her in this world, nor she of him. Likewise, if they were to cut back excessive endowments and give a priest only a modest sufficiency, they would quench the evil desire of simony; but so long as worldly men continue to heap up more endowments, they will always be kindling the clergy in that desire — they adding fuel, and the devil like a blacksmith pumping the bellows. But from this holy remedy for the abolition of that sin, princes and worldly lords are drawn away by hypocritical blindness, for the clergy have blinded them with their hypocrisy, so that the clergy say: You must not meddle in spiritual affairs — and they, obeying this, take no heed.
