---
reading: hus-simony
page: 143
pdf_page: 168
sortable_pagination_id: "143"
---

they may have committed. For Saint Peter says that kings and lords are sent by God to punish the wicked. And Saint Paul likewise demonstrates this: \[Romans 13:4\] that “the ruler does not bear the sword in vain, but is God’s servant for the punishment of evildoers.”

And lest the gnashing boar should again snap his teeth and say that the ruler bears the sword, but not over priests — Saint Paul says: \[Romans 13:1–4\] “Let every soul — \[that is, every person who has a soul\] — be subject to the higher powers; for there is no power but of God, and the powers that are ordained are of God. Therefore whosoever resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God; and they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation: for rulers are not a terror to good works, but to evil. Do you wish not to fear the power? Do good, and you shall have praise of the same: for he is God’s minister to you for good. But if you do evil, fear him; for he does not bear the sword in vain: for he is God’s minister, a revenger to execute wrath upon those who do evil.”

Behold, now you have the second apostle, who shows that every person — and therefore also a priest and a bishop — must be subject to secular rulers and must fear them when he does evil; for they do not bear the sword, that is, authority, in vain, but to take vengeance on evildoers. How shall we priests exempt ourselves from this twofold testimony of the holy apostles when we openly commit some wickedness? O if only we would keep this law of God and take example from our humble Savior, who, being God and King and the highest Bishop
