---
reading: hus-simony
page: 144
pdf_page: 170
sortable_pagination_id: 170
---

when sin that has come to light is promptly punished. Therefore, since the cause of the people’s ruin is the wicked priests themselves — for who will intercede for the sins of the people when the priest who ought to pray is guilty of graver sins? — and in our lands priests live shamelessly and wickedly, we must rise zealously against these evil deeds to punish them, lest the sin of a few bring damnation upon the many. And immediately thereafter he says why the queen must attend to this and correct it, as follows: whoever is able to correct and neglects to do so makes himself, without doubt, a partaker in the sin. Therefore take care for your soul, take care for your children whom you desire to reign happily; take care for your provinces, and before the Creator stretches forth His hand to strike, think most earnestly about correcting this — that is, the sin of the priests! So writes Saint Gregory to that queen. Then to the king of the Franks he writes as follows: As I wrote long since, the bodily sins of priests and the wickedness of the heresy of simony are most gravely to be condemned and punished by all the bishops; you must root them out of your lands, and permit them to retain no money beyond what the commandment of God allows. And he immediately continues: Therefore, just as against external foreign enemies, so likewise against the internal domestic enemies of souls, learn to be diligent — that you may faithfully resist those enemies of our God and fight against them, and here happily reign under His protection, led by His mercy to attain eternal joys. So writes the great pope Saint Gregory.
