---
reading: hus-simony
page: 15
pdf_page: 40
sortable_pagination_id: "15"
---

saying: What will you give me, and I will give you the body of God? or: What will you pay for that altar, that church, or that other benefice?

\[D\] But the learned,\[20\] those who understand Scripture, weigh the wicked will by which a person desires bodily reward, or favor and praise, for a spiritual thing. Therefore St. Gregory says:\[21\] There are many who accept no money for ordinations, yet give ordinations for human favor, and from this act of giving seek only the reward of human praise. They do not give freely the gift they have received freely, since from a holy office given \[to them\] they seek the coin of favor. Therefore, when the prophet describes the just man, he rightly says: Blessed is he who withdraws his hand from every gift. He says pointedly: from every gift; for there is a gift of service, a gift of the hand, and a gift of the tongue. The gift of service is the presentation of something unworthy; the gift of the hand — that is, what can be bought for money — is money; the gift of the tongue is disordered favor or disordered promise. Therefore, whoever ordains withdraws his hand from every gift when, in divine matters, he seeks not only no money, but also no human favor. So says St. Gregory.

And he means that whenever anyone gives a spiritual gift — himself or through another, in a disordered way, whether openly or secretly — for service, or for a bodily gift, or for human favor, they are then simonists against that Scripture and the commandment of Christ: “Freely you have received, freely give.”\[22\] The apostles received freely, without gifts, without unworthy service —
