---
reading: hus-simony
page: 150
pdf_page: 175
sortable_pagination_id: "150"
---

O recognize that simony, once it has spread among the people, does more harm than any of the plundering that takes place among them. O remember that the Savior says: \[Matthew 24:45–47\] “Who then is the faithful and wise servant, whom his lord has set over his household, to give them their food in due season? Blessed is that servant whom, when his lord comes, he shall find so doing. Truly I say to you, he shall set him over all his possessions.”

### \[H\]

O lords, hear your reward, if you shall be faithful and wise servants. The reward of blessedness is a fullness lacking nothing — the eternal joy of the will and the possession of every good. For blessed is the one in heaven who has whatever he wishes and wishes for nothing evil. For since everyone in heaven will have God at his will — He who is the immeasurable good, beyond which the will can reach for nothing more — therefore that good, being given to the blessed person, gives along with itself all other things to his will. And this is what Christ means when He says that He will set him over all His goods, and thus over all His riches. O faithful Christian, do not lose this eternal wealth for what is temporal and fleeting — the immeasurable for the very small, the comforting for what is full of anguish! O “seek first the kingdom of heaven, desiring it above all things in your longing, and striving for it with all your powers: and then, as the Savior says, \[Matthew 6:33\] all needful things will be given to you.”
