---
reading: hus-simony
page: 152
pdf_page: 177
sortable_pagination_id: "152"
---

wishes to judge without doing violence to truth must have power such that he wrongs no one — analogous to the power of God the Father. Second, he must have a good conscience, fearing God in a filial manner — analogous to the humanity of Christ. Third, he must have knowledge of truth — analogous to the wisdom of the Son of God. And fourth, he must have a pure and benevolent will — analogous to the will of the Holy Spirit. And when he possesses these four things, he will then be able to judge rightly. And since the priests lacked these qualities, they put to death with a loathsome and cruel death the innocent Savior, because He spoke the truth to them and rebuked their sins; and the same thing happens now and will continue to happen — that those who out of sincere desire rebuke sins through Scripture and preach the truth are persecuted and accounted heretics. But these must not fall away, having their Savior before them as a mirror and His consolation.

### \[L\]

But many among them will step forward and say that greater credence ought to be given to them as elders who have authority to judge, and to the many who know Scripture; for they are charged with governing the people — how then should they not be believed more than poor obscure priests? —

To this the uneducated thief will reply — he who, against all the bishops, masters, knights, and all those who condemned the innocent Christ and mocked Him, gave true witness, saying \[Luke 23:41\] that “Christ had done nothing wrong.” Behold, that thief deserves more credence than
