---
reading: hus-simony
page: 17
pdf_page: 42
sortable_pagination_id: 42
---

of God says: Freely you have received, freely give? Why do you not set before your eyes that our Redeemer, entering the temple, overturned the tables of those who sold doves and scattered the coins of the money-changers? And who are they in the house of God today who sell doves? Only those who in Christendom accept money for the laying on of hands, through which the Holy Spirit is given from heaven. Therefore the dove is sold when the gift of the Holy Spirit is given for money. But our Redeemer overturns the tables of those who sell doves, for he destroys the priesthood of such buyers. Therefore the holy constitutions condemn simoniacal heresy and command that they be deprived of the priesthood.” So says all of St. Gregory. And knowing that priests excuse themselves by many clever arguments, he immediately adds, saying: That day will surely come, nor is it far off, on which the shepherd above shepherds will appear and will bring every man’s deeds to light; and he who now reproves the sins of those below through their superiors will then himself reprove the sins of those above. Therefore he entered the temple, himself made a whip of cords, and drove the evil traders from the house of God, overturning the tables of those who sold doves; for the offenses of subjects he avenges through their pastors, but the wickedness of pastors he will himself avenge. For that judge will surely come, before whom no one may hide in silence, whom one cannot deceive by denial. —

Behold, so writes that great and holy pope, showing that simoniacal heretics are those who give the gift of the Holy Spirit, which is signified by the dove,
