---
reading: hus-simony
page: 23
pdf_page: 48
sortable_pagination_id: 48
---

something. And Gehazi ran after Naaman, and when Naaman saw him running toward him, he leapt down from his chariot to meet him and said: Is all well? And Gehazi said: All is well; my lord has sent me, saying: Just now two young men have come to me from mount Ephraim, sons of the prophets; give them a talent of silver and two changes of clothing. And Naaman said: It is better that you take two talents. And he urged him and bound two talents of silver in two bags and two changes of clothing, and laid them on two servants, who carried them before him. And when he came in the evening, he took them from their hands and stored them in the house, and dismissed the men, and they departed. And he went in and stood before his master. And Elisha said: Whence comest thou, Gehazi? And he answered: Thy servant went nowhere. And he said: Was not my heart present when the man turned from his chariot to meet thee? Now thou hast taken the silver and taken the clothing, to buy olive orchards and vineyards and oxen and sheep and menservants and maidservants; but the leprosy of Naaman shall cleave unto thee and to thy seed for ever! And he went out from his presence leprous as snow.

Behold, thus Scripture describes Gehazi, whose offspring are all those who seek gifts after a spiritual gift has already been given. Therefore Peter Damiani, the cardinal, says: There are many who before ordination and before pronouncing judgment have made no agreement and have asked for no recompense; but afterwards they press \[their recipients\] as if they were debtors. Let these know that they have fallen into the sin of Gehazi,
