---
reading: hus-simony
page: 24
pdf_page: 49
sortable_pagination_id: 49
---

who, when Naaman had been healed and was already returning home, dared to demand money for a gift of the Holy Spirit. And just as he was struck with no lesser punishment than leprosy, which drove people out of cities, so too this man is covered not with a light but with a grievous sin, which severs him from holy things and from the holy Church. So says Peter Damiani.

From this you will recognize that all those who, after confession, after baptism, after holy oil, after the celebration of the mass, after burial, after the consecration of a church, altar, chalice, or vestment, after institution to a benefice, or after preaching \[accept gifts\] — all such are in a sin like that of Gehazi. O alas, how many such does the pope have, bishops, and parish priests — who, not like Elisha to chastise the servant for his sin, but rather share with him both the bodily profits and the sins. And if ever one of them takes nothing, like Elisha, would to God it were always so; but Gehazi sneaks out and says that his master wants to have it. And there are so many of these Gehazites that at the pope’s court there is a cardinal, there a notary, there a chancellor, there a doorkeeper, there a bullar — that is, a sealer — there an intercessor. And who could count them at bishops’ courts and elsewhere!

### \[D\]

Then from Jeroboam the Jeroboamites. Of King Jeroboam it is written that whosoever wished to fill Jeroboam’s hand, that man became a priest over the idols. And then Scripture says that for this reason the house — that is, the kingdom — was overthrown and wiped from the earth. Those who thus receive
