---
reading: hus-simony
page: 25
pdf_page: 50
sortable_pagination_id: "25"
---

money and make bishops and priests, or bestow other benefices, are followers of Jeroboam — and God grant they be not destroyed as he was.

### \[E\] Then the heirs of Judas are those who sell the spiritual gift of God.

Saying by word or by some sign: What will you give me, and I will consecrate a church for you, celebrate a mass, grant absolution, baptize, confirm, give the body of God, institute \[you\] to a parish or to a bishopric? And of these it is written: As vendors they sell the servant of the Holy Spirit, and they are likened above all to Judas the traitor, who sold Christ. O, how numerous is this brood! One sells himself by money to sing masses, another to preach, another, as was said, to dispense other sacred things. And such are in some respects worse than Judas the traitor; as Parisiensis says, Judas the traitor sold Truth secretly and to great men, and in a mortal body, but the simonists do the reverse — for they openly and to any manner of persons sell the now immortal Christ.

### \[F\] Simonians, or the heirs of Simon.

These in particular are called those who offer money, other gifts, or unseemly service for spiritual power or for the gift of the Holy Spirit — sometimes openly, sometimes secretly, and sometimes by consenting that they would gladly give if they could obtain \[what they seek\]; like their father Simon the sorcerer, who had been baptized and had attached himself to St. Philip, and offered money to the apostles that they might give him power. Of him St. Luke thus writes:
