---
reading: hus-simony
page: 26
pdf_page: 51
sortable_pagination_id: "26"
---

“When Simon saw that through the laying on of the apostles’ hands the Holy Spirit was given, he offered them money, saying: Give me also this power, that on whomsoever I lay hands, he may receive the Holy Spirit.” Behold, there you have Simon, from whom in Latin simony — which is specifically the name for sacred trafficking — is derived, and simonians are called simonists; and now all whosoever buy or sell the gifts of God for money or for other gifts, or who knowingly assist in such trafficking, all these are called simonians, and in Czech, simonists \[*svatokupci*\]. Therefore the master of deep understanding says: Although simonians — that is, Simonites — are specifically called those who, like Simon the sorcerer, seek an unsaleable gift with money; and those who take money for holy service are called Gehazites after Gehazi: nevertheless both those who give and those who receive are called simonians — that is, simonists — and both are struck down by the same judgment. So writes that master.

### \[G\] Now you may distinguish who are the heirs of Balaam.

For those who preach for money and curse people inordinately, or who give evil counsel as Balaam gave evil counsel to King Balak — that he should lead the people of God astray from God’s commandment through fornication — these are Balaam’s heirs. O, how many priests are on that path! Are there not many fornicators who, through fornication, pursue the alms of maidens, widows, and wives, and who feed and clothe whores more lavishly than husbands dress their own wives? But what befell Balaam? Scripture says: Balaam the son of Beor was slain with the sword. But that would be nothing, were he not damned — ask him about it in hell! Likewise
