---
reading: hus-simony
page: 28
pdf_page: 53
sortable_pagination_id: "28"
---

and let them be cast out of their dwellings. Let there be no helper for him, nor let any show pity to his orphans. Let his children be appointed to destruction!”

Behold, thus the prophet David pronounces a blessing upon Judas and his sons — those followers who steal the alms of Christ from the poor, pursue avarice, and betray and sell the Lord Jesus, as St. Bernard says.

Then upon Simon and his lineage St. Peter pronounced a blessing when he \[Simon\] demanded power for money, saying to him: “Thy money perish with thee, because thou hast thought that the gift of God may be purchased with money. Thou hast neither part nor lot in this matter; for thy heart is not right before God. Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and pray God, if perhaps the thought of thine heart may be forgiven thee; for I see that thou art in the gall of bitterness and in the bond of iniquity.” — Thus St. Peter blessed Simon and his sons the simonists. Not so now do Peter’s vicars; rather, whoever offers more money shall the more quickly receive power for a bishopric or for another spiritual office. Not so St. Pope Leo, who says that simonists give and receive only a lying spirit; and St. Gregory, who says that simonists are heretics, in whom there is no valid priesthood; and St. Ambrose, who says that they are accursed and separated from communion with the body of God; and Pope Paschal, who says that simonists are the greatest heretics; and Ge-
