---
reading: hus-simony
page: 31
pdf_page: 56
sortable_pagination_id: 56
---

the most holy Lord God, whom sin cannot touch.

But perhaps you will say: Here on earth, the pope is the most holy father! To this I say: when you demonstrate that he lives most holily, following Christ in poverty, in humility, in gentleness, in chastity, in labor — then I will grant you that he is most holy; but manifest greed, pride, and other sins give people cause to think that he is not the most holy father! — But you say: The whole world calls him the most holy father, and you alone do not; why should you be believed more than they? To this I say: you reach too far when you say “the whole world” — perhaps scarcely a hundredth part of the people regards him as the Bishop of Rome. But even if all people were to call him holy or most holy: if in his deeds he were contrary to Christ, he would be no saint for their calling him so. Therefore the Lord God says: “My people! Those who call you blessed, those deceive you.” And who are these, if not flatterers who, wishing to obtain something from the people, call them holy and promise that the people will be holy if they give to them! Likewise priests and clerics, wishing to obtain something from the pope, call him most holy, and he supposes it to be true, and consents to their addressing and writing to him in this way. O woe to him, that he allows himself to be so deceived.

But they have an excuse for this, saying that by virtue of his office he is most holy. But the saints reply that office does not make a man holy; as is shown by the example of Judas the apostle, and of the bishops and
