---
reading: hus-simony
page: 34
pdf_page: 60
sortable_pagination_id: 60
---

I have none; but what I have I give you: In the name of Jesus Christ, rise up and walk.” And so any faithful Christian can well reflect that the pope, and likewise every bishop, ought to follow Christ, to distribute spiritual gifts for the glory of God, but not to meddle in the distribution of worldly things. And the same applies to the conferral of bishoprics, parishes, and other prelacies. For even a simple person can judge that a pope who has never seen a man, who is a hundred or two hundred miles from him, does not know whether he is of good character, nor does he know whether he is suited to the people over whom he wishes to place him as bishop or parish priest, nor does he know whether the good people who are to be spiritually fed by him will receive him gladly — what business has he to interfere? And if he says that he gives his letters, and that whoever reaches him first has the right — this again leads to the outcome that greedy Judas, who does not sleep, will get there first to the bishops or to the wealth, as we commonly see, before the other, who also has letters. For were there a hundred of them, since they themselves sought to obtain the bishopric or other dignity, all have acted against the rule, and so all must be driven away! For St. Paul says: “Let no one take the dignity upon himself, but only he who is called by God, as was Aaron.” And St. Gregory says that just as one who flees from a dignity when it is offered to him must be compelled \[to accept it\], so one who eagerly seeks it and shamelessly meddles must without question be driven away. But when these words of the saints are fulfilled, Antichrist scoffs, so that he waits and expects
