---
reading: hus-simony
page: 44
pdf_page: 69
sortable_pagination_id: 69
---

as Saint Paul says, citing those who say: Let us do evil that good may come.

And let whoever wishes take note that popes avail nothing by violent or worldly force. Read the chronicles and observe how, from the time popes began to wage war, their worldly power has ever diminished; and as Saint Hildegard says: that the pope’s dominion will be so reduced that barely the bishop’s mitre will remain upon his head. — Whether this will come to pass or not, you know well, Lord Christ!

### \[G\]

Now, regarding the granting of indulgences for money — that such indulgences are unworthy is sufficiently shown by Saint Peter, who refused to grant Simon, for money, the power to lay hands on people so that they might receive the gift of the Holy Spirit in this way; but the apostles laid hands on people not for money, but freely, for their salvation, obeying their Savior who said to them: Freely you have received, freely give. And thus they received the gift of the Holy Spirit in a remarkable manner. For the apostles were worthy bishops, and the people, having believed rightly, repented rightly of their sins. But now priests, through greed, traffic in indulgences; and people wish to be rid of their sins by giving money, and repent wrongly. And so both sides are deceived: the priests by selling and the people by buying. The priests sell a lie, as Pope Saint Leo says: “A gift, unless it is given and received freely, is not a gift. And simoniacs do not receive freely, and therefore do not receive the gift that is of great benefit in priestly orders; and since they do not receive it, they do not have it;
