---
reading: hus-simony
page: 45
pdf_page: 70
sortable_pagination_id: 70
---

and since they do not have it, they cannot give it to anyone, whether freely or for payment. What then do they give? Surely that which they have. And what do they have? Surely the spirit of lies! How do we prove this? For since the spirit of truth, as Truth itself — from which it proceeds — testifies, is received freely, it is established beyond doubt that the spirit which is received for payment is the spirit of lies.” So Pope Leo writes, showing that simoniacs sell and buy the spirit of lies.

And how can they be excused — those who obtain indulgences for money, so as to heap greater burdens \[upon souls\], or those who sit in the confessional, hiring themselves out for a fixed sum of money? In Rome, confessors — secular priests and friars, ignorant and unworthy runners — sit in the confessional only when they have agreed upon a set amount of gold to be paid for the confession, and they absolve people who come from wherever they may, with whatever sins they bring, without knowing how to set them right! O merciful Lord! How little care there is for the souls which you redeemed with your holy blood and your cruel death! They have, to our shame, greater diligence in filling their purse than in bringing a soul to you from damnation. And so Saint Bernard says to Pope Eugenius: A she-ass falls, and there is someone to lift her up; a soul perishes, and there is no one to give it a thought! Saint Bernard observed that priests are more diligent about the pope’s mule, lest it stumble, than about a soul, lest it perish! They are like the Jewish priests, of whom the Savior made the argument that when a donkey fell into a pit on the Sabbath, they pulled it out immediately and said it was no sin:
