---
reading: hus-simony
page: 49
pdf_page: 74
sortable_pagination_id: "49"
---

and holding fast the faithful word which is according to doctrine, that he may be able to exhort by sound teaching, and to rebuke those who contradict.” And he likewise writes to Timothy\[85\] and adds that “he must have a good testimony from those who are without, that is, from outsiders, lest he fall into reproach or hatred and into the snare of the devil.”

Behold, you now have St. Paul’s description of what a bishop ought to be, and he shows that he must be without every mortal sin, called by God, and chosen from among men, full of fifteen virtues as he names them; and beyond this, as the Savior says, he ought to lay down his life for the sheep.\[86\] And if he enters by any other way than through Christ, and other than by the path that has been described, then he is a thief and a robber.\[87\]

Second, a bishop may be a simoniac while residing in the episcopal office, and this in three ways: First, if after a simoniacal entry he abandons the work of a bishop and does not live as St. Paul has set forth for every bishop. This compounds the first simony, for he adds yet more sins. And if you ask: with whom does he practice simony? I say, with the devil — for by his evil will he sells his own soul and his spiritual office to the devil. Second, he sins in simony most gravely when he squanders recklessly on himself or on his household the goods that belong to the poor, and lades them upon his relatives; for in this way he makes ill use of the bishopric. Therefore St. Gregory says: “An evil report has come to us, that certain bishops give not to the clergy of their diocese the tithes and Christian offerings, but rather to laymen, to knights —
