---
reading: hus-simony
page: 5
pdf_page: 31
sortable_pagination_id: 31
---

but were ready not to hold the error and to receive the truth gladly. Therefore a faithful Christian should hold in his mind that he does not wish to maintain anything contrary to Holy Scripture, and that if through ignorance he should fall into error, he is willing immediately to withdraw from it. And so masters in the schools, when they respond to other masters or when they write anything, declare that they intend to hold nothing wrong.\[3\] And by this provision even simple people are freed from heresy — among whom many suppose that the Holy Trinity is a woman, and that God the Father is an older man than his son, God. Therefore it is obstinate refusal to withdraw from error that constitutes heresy.

### \[C\]

And because one person holds error against Holy Scripture by deed and another by word, not only is he a heretic who holds error by word, but also he who holds it by deed. For example: if Peter said that fornication is no sin but did not commit fornication, and Jan said that fornication is a sin but fornicated obstinately, then Jan would be a heretic in deed and Peter in word; and if a third person both said that fornication is no sin and fornicated obstinately, he would be a twofold heretic. And as one who teaches others error contrary to Holy Scripture leads them into heresy and is a heretic, so too he who by his evil conduct draws many away from following Christ is a heretic; for deeds teach more firmly and powerfully than bare words. And such a one, who is a heretic in deed, wars against that article of faith in Holy Scripture: “I believe in God.” Therefore St. Paul says\[4\] that such persons profess to know God, but deny him by their evil works. For
