---
reading: hus-simony
page: 50
pdf_page: 75
sortable_pagination_id: 75
---

or to servants, and worse still: to their own friends. Therefore, if any bishop hereafter be found to be a transgressor of this divine commandment, let him be reckoned among the greatest heretics and among the Antichrists as not the least. And as the Council of Nicaea has decreed concerning simoniacs: both the bishop who gives and the laymen who receive from him, whether for service or for a gift, let them be condemned to the eternal burning of fires.” So speaks the great St. Pope Gregory.\[90\]

And when bishops truly look into their own consciences and into this holy ordinance, each grasping himself by the head \[i.e., clutching his head in horror\], they will discover whether they are numbered among heretics and Antichrists. Likewise, priests who would wish to keep themselves from simony would not hasten in great numbers toward a bishopric, since it is so entangled with wretched wealth that on account of it men both enter wickedly and dwell in that estate wickedly; and so many grow spiritually leprous and are poisoned as with venom. As evidence of this, when the Emperor Constantine first enriched the Bishop of Rome by giving him wealth, a voice was heard from heaven: Today poison has been poured into the Christian assembly.\[91\] O, how many have already died in their souls because of that poison, how many have grown leprous through simony, how many have been destroyed even in body!

### \[C\]

Third, a bishop becomes a simoniac by receiving money or bodily gifts in a disordered manner. This occurs in very many ways, according to the cunning of Lucifer, who has long been schooled in that art. For there is no doubt that a bishop would be
