---
reading: hus-simony
page: 52
pdf_page: 77
sortable_pagination_id: "52"
---

-crate; but if they do consecrate and the payment is not made, they then take vengeance upon them with summons and with curses. And who before God shall excuse them from simony, since they manifestly sell blessing and consecration — not merely for favor, as St. Gregory says, but for money, and thus sell a spiritual thing for bodily gain!

\[D\] But here they have Simon’s little cap \[i.e., a dodge\], with which they cover themselves, saying commonly that they sell bodily labor but not blessing or consecration; and also that they take the money for sustenance, but not for the consecration. But this excuse is like that of a greedy tavern-woman who, having provided food, also has one measure of beer paid for, in which payment she exceeds both the food and the drink. And this excuse is also like the following tale, as one writer records: a greedy lord came to an annual fair. Then a servant told him that in that town the innkeepers at their table give very fat geese for free, but beef and veal and other meats they give at a higher price. Thereupon the lord commanded his servants to eat the geese given gratis, while he himself would eat the coarser meats to which he was accustomed. And when dinner was over and the reckoning was made, the veal had been entered in the account at so high a price that even the geese proved dear in the paying! Likewise the simoniacs wish to deceive the people of God with this answer, saying that they sell the labor, but give the blessing, consecration, or confirmation freely! Therefore against this cunning the holy ordinance says: Those who buy bodily things and
