---
reading: hus-simony
page: 54
pdf_page: 80
sortable_pagination_id: 80
---

indeed already happens in this sin! — Behold, you now have how a bishop, in consecrating a church or altar, can be a simoniac.

### \[E\]

Next, that he can be a simoniac in ordaining others to the priesthood: it has already been said above that not only those who ordain clerics for money, but also those who do so for favor or for their own glory, are simoniacs — as St. Gregory and St. Remigius say.\[98\] And St. Ambrose\[99\] says that when the one who gave money was ordained, what he gave was gold, and what he lost was his soul; and when the other \[the bishop\] ordained him, what he \[the bishop\] received was gold, and what he gave was leprosy \[i.e., spiritual corruption\].

Behold, St. Ambrose here shows that both became leprous through simony when he gives and this one receives money for ordination. Therefore St. Ambrose says sorrowfully: It is a truth that grieves me, that an archbishop — that is, a pope — has made a bishop after the flesh, for he has ordained for money a man spiritually leprous. Money perish with you to perdition, for you have bought the gift of the Holy Spirit for money, and in buying it you have accomplished a wondrous damnation of souls!

And again he says: Still with bodily eyes he appears to be a great bishop, but in the sight of God he is a leper; with great wealth he has obtained an unworthy priesthood, and before God he has lost his soul; the body has received the dignity, and the soul has lost its honor! So St. Ambrose. And again he says: Many are found who, wishing to purchase the gift of the Holy Spirit by the trafficking of gifts, give money that they may receive the episcopal dignity,
