---
reading: hus-simony
page: 57
pdf_page: 82
sortable_pagination_id: 82
---

simonists, those who give such things for money; likewise those who consecrate vestments and chalices, or who prepare other articles of divine worship.

### \[F\]

As for confirmation, because it is brief, bishops are ashamed to demand money for it, since the confirmation is also performed openly; nevertheless, some have their boys of Gehazi \[servants in the mold of Gehazi\] who command that an offering of a penny be made at confirmation, and the bishop arranges a preacher according to his own will to drive in the donations; just as also when he consecrates a church or an altar, the preacher says that offerings should be placed in order to obtain a share in the merits of the saints to whom the foundation is dedicated, and he recounts other participations and indulgences — and all of this amounts to money! And so the servants together with the bishop pocket cloth, gifts, and money for the consecration of an altar.

And at ordination the scribes press heavily, so that for the first order they take a groat and a penny per letter, for the second two groats and two pennies, for the third three, and for the fourth \[likewise increasing\]; and there is no other reason given for the writing-fee than that the order is of higher dignity. In some places they also give a gold coin, and in some places more, and in others less. And in some places one must also give to the barber and to the doorkeeper, and to him who admits them. And all this sinfulness is laid to the bishop’s account!

And so his servants enforce the collection of money so strictly that they will not admit \[a candidate\] to ordination; and even if they do admit him, they will not return his original letters \[of dimission\] until he has paid; or else the bishop proclaims under penalty of excommunication that the letters must be redeemed. And so when all this scattered simony is gathered together, it will come to a good many
