---
reading: hus-simony
page: 64
pdf_page: 89
sortable_pagination_id: 89
---

more frugally. But you say that it befits a bishop to have fine vestments, many pages, and a rich table. And I shall answer you: that the dignity of Christ the bishop and of his apostles shone in poverty, without retinue and without bodily pleasures, in holy life; and therefore Christ’s poverty, labor, and humility would clothe \[a bishop\] better than any proud garments, as St. Gregory says. But I know well that the sons of Antichrist mock Christ’s labor, humility, and poverty, so that whoever wishes to follow Christ and his apostles they consider a fool; for Antichrist, their father, so wills it. Therefore now seek and search: will you find a bishop who would follow Christ? Truly, he himself says: \[John 10\] “All of those who came before me were thieves and robbers.”

One still says: You have said that bishops are simonists, according to the words of St. Gregory, who give \[church goods\] to pages and friends; yet it is the natural law that a man must help father and mother, and then other friends — how then is a bishop to be counted among the greatest heretics and among the Antichrists, if he gives to friends? To this St. Gregory would answer: that if a friend of the bishop were in need so great, or greater, than another who is not his kinsman — then if the bishop, out of mercy, gives him church alms for the sake of the Lord God, to help him out of great need — not in order to exalt and aggrandize him in the world, nor that he might lead an easy, pleasure-seeking life, merely because he is the bishop’s kins\-
