---
reading: hus-simony
page: 68
pdf_page: 94
sortable_pagination_id: 94
---

Why are you striving for one particular church, having given the incumbent priest thirty kopa \[a unit of currency\] and his keep for life, so that he would surrender the church to them, when it is already to remain with their order? They answered me, saying that it was because the church lies near their estate and is convenient to them. I said to them: Since that is a sufficient reason, why do you not also obtain the nearer one? They fell silent, and I said: Perhaps because it does not have many revenues and incomes! A second thing I said to them: Now you want to have this church because it is adjacent to your estate; and when you have that one, then another will be adjacent to it, and so you will want to have that one too; and so on and on, until you would want to have the entire world! They were ashamed.

And what good comes of this appropriation of churches, who knows? But with our own eyes we see that monks are corrupted: for some who, while in the order, did not commit fornication, when they break out \[of the cloister\], become fornicators. Also, from their elders they hire themselves out for money, they do not teach the people of God, or indeed cannot even speak the common tongue; and when the church or the estate is ruined, they abandon it, so that the people of God are neglected. And that to act so is against God — what sensible person doubts it? And since in so acting they have an evil will, now buying a spiritual thing for a material one, and again selling the spiritual for the temporal, they are therefore tainted with simony.

As for what they pay in money for indulgences, procuring them for their order, or especially procuring for monasteries the infula \[episcopal insignia\] — that is, the crowns — so that an abbot, a provost, or a prior might be crowned like a bi-
