---
reading: hus-simony
page: 70
pdf_page: 95
sortable_pagination_id: 95
---

shop — so that an abbot, a provost, or a prior might be crowned! And what benefit does this bring to holy Church, other than their pride and boasting? And further burdens of trading accrue to them, since they must pay the bishops for ordination or for the coronation. And what added trouble and wretchedness and greed, in order to be able to provide their order with a costly crozier and crown!

### \[C\]

As for the lies they tell before the pope and before other persons, to obtain intercessions with the pope — saying that they are very poor, that they cannot sustain themselves for poverty in the monastery and cannot bear such hardship! And so they beg that some church be assigned to them. But if one were to count up in their monastery the persons, the ploughs, the fields, the fishponds, and the revenues, one would find that each \[member\] would have twenty kopa or thirty in income, and some besides that a plough and a fishpond! And I know that Christ and his disciples, and the founding fathers of the orders, had much less and found it sufficient. — A second thing they say before the pope: that once they have a church, they will render great benefit to holy Church; for otherwise he should not permit it, unless they serve the people of God more fully. Third, they promise, as is fitting, that they wish to defend the rights of the Church and improve them, and thus to benefit holy Church; for otherwise it ought not to be granted to them. And so their first argument for having a church assigned to them is the demonstration of their poverty; the second, that they are more needy than others; and the third, the improvement of holy Church. And if those three arguments were true, they would have some jus-
