---
reading: hus-simony
page: 71
pdf_page: 96
sortable_pagination_id: 96
---

tification \[literally: a little knob to hold onto\] for their request being granted. But who knows whether it will be so or not, or who knows that they will indeed benefit holy Church? For as regards the simony running along the monetary track in order to achieve this: something goes to the pope, something to the patron lord, something to the intercessors, something to the scribes, something to the advocates, and similarly to others who help along the way! And once they obtain \[the church\], they commonly give such a church out on lease as to an urban benefice, and thus bind it to a perpetual rent. And so simony on both sides endures long: they receive \[income\] without labor, and the one who holds \[the church\] must at times buy himself free from them, and having bought himself free, must pursue the people \[for payment\], so as to pay them and to recoup his own \[outlay\].

### \[D\]

And this appropriation of dignities, churches, and revenues came about in the following way: for in earlier times the people, who were to be governed according to divine law, chose for themselves a bishop, or another prelate, priest, or spiritual leader. And in this manner of election, holy bishops and priests were ordained — those whose feast days the Christian congregation celebrates. Then afterwards secular princes and lords, thinking it would advance their worldly status — as patrons who had themselves endowed the bishopric or church — began themselves to appoint bishops or priests. Third, when it began to trouble their consciences that they were sometimes granting \[benefices\] badly, they placed their patronage rights under monasteries, and in this way subjected churches to fixed revenues. The lords thought that they would thereby escape the evil of improper presentation, and also thought that the monks would present more fittingly! But then, when neither the monks have it nor the lords their presentations, it has turned toward the pope;
