---
reading: hus-simony
page: 73
pdf_page: 99
sortable_pagination_id: 99
---

they squander alms very wantonly. And what do some of them spend on dogs and pastries? Who can write how they must also drink of various foreign fragrances? St. Bernard, a monk, describes this: that now wine with wormwood, now with rosemary, now with bay-laurel, now with sage, now with elecampane, now with ginger, now sweet, now fragrant — and they pour it from cellar to cellar. And in Bohemia also, St. Bernard, though you were not there, I will tell you that they have beer both old and young, both thick and thin. When lay people come to them unknown, they give them thin little beer, so that they might think that the monks drink that thin beer, and also so that they might drink less. But if they sense that someone perhaps wishes to be buried with them after death, or that they have hope that he may give them something, then they draw up good \[beer\] from the pittance \[cellar\], so that one pittance might draw the next — and pittance among them means to drink abundantly and to eat pleasurably. And so, poor wretches, they have so withdrawn \[from the world\] into bodily pleasure that there are no people in the world who would have a more pleasurable life for the body! Kings, lords, princes do not always have such good and ready food and drink; worldly cellars sometimes run dry — theirs never; kings with their lords will sometimes go with nothing baked, nothing cooked, and run short of bread; for them the best white bread is always ready. Their winter does not go unwarmed, for they have boots and fur coats; heat does not harm them, for they have cool cells and cloisters, that is: paradise courts! Therefore, whoever wishes to have a good life, let him vow to enter an order.
