---
reading: hus-simony
page: 76
pdf_page: 101
sortable_pagination_id: 101
---

this: that in the time of the apostles and of the other converted Christians, all bodily goods necessary for sustenance were held in common for every person in need, as St. Luke writes, saying that all things were common among them. \[Acts 4:32\] But it is not so among the separate religious orders; for not only is their wealth in no way common to the poor, but among them sometimes only one church door and certain things are held in common — yet the little pot, the pouch, the groat, the penny, the purse, and the hood are all private property! And if one wishes to think further, one can find private incomes even among monks and nuns. The religious keep their vow of poverty regarding private property as faithfully as a loose woman keeps her chastity! And they confess their other sins readily enough, but they take no notice of their false oath! Oh, if only they would keep what they have sworn — namely, chastity, obedience, and poverty without private property — and then guard themselves from other sins and confess them as well!

But they say they cannot live without private property. And I answer: if that is so, why did they bind themselves so foolishly? But since it is not so, in saying this they make a wicked excuse. Therefore, it would have been better not to enter religious life than, having entered, to break one’s oath. Let us consider, all who wish to live the religious life, and let us go to the desert, and let us endure hardship in eating and drinking, in sleeping and in labor, as the first religious men did; and let us not establish cloisters and houses for ourselves in the midst of the wealthiest cities, nor in the most pleasant locations! Let us observe obe-
