---
reading: hus-simony
page: 77
pdf_page: 102
sortable_pagination_id: 102
---

dience to our first father, Jesus Christ; let us follow him in humility, in chastity, and in poverty, for in this way we shall never go astray.

### \[H\]

Yet another excuse they have regarding the spending of wealth is that if they did not spend freely with people in this way, others would not give to them thereafter; and second, that they fear those people might harm them with regard to their property. Therefore, they say, we must give to them and live so lavishly with them. But this excuse will surely not free them from sin; for in saying this, they belong to that company of which St. Paul speaks, \[Romans 3:8\] saying: Let us do evil that good may come. For they must know that a man ought never to consent to evil in order to bring about some good from it; for St. Anselm, a great teacher, and others likewise say that no one ought willingly to sin, even if he might thereby save the whole world, because he could not please God by that sinning, just as God cannot sin, nor can he command anyone to sin. And since this is so, what excuse have they who say that they must live in this way in order to preserve their wealth? No — they ought rather to rejoice if their wealth were taken from them, because they would not have wished to live wickedly; as other faithful Christians also ought to do. And truly that excuse, by which the devil has overthrown many people — namely, when they say, “I had to do it, or they would have taken \[it\] from me” — will lead many to eternal damnation. For the Savior says: \[Matthew 18:7\] “Woe to the world because of offenses! It must needs be that offenses come; but woe to that man through whom the offense comes!”
