---
reading: hus-simony
page: 78
pdf_page: 103
sortable_pagination_id: 103
---

### \[I\]

There is yet another snare by which simoniacal religious give people letters, making them partakers of their good works, as the letter states: of fasts, prayers, masses, penances, and other good deeds. But in this they deceive themselves, in that they write, saying: We make you a partaker; for to make anyone a partaker of good works, so that they may benefit the soul unto salvation, belongs to God the Lord alone. The great holy prophet David knew this; therefore he did not say: I make other people partakers of my deeds! but he prayed to God, saying: \[Psalm 119:63\] “Make me a partaker, O Lord, of all those who fear you and keep your law.” Second, they deceive themselves in that they extol their own works before others, contrary to the word of the Savior, who says: \[Luke 17:10\] “When you have done all the things commanded you, say: We are unprofitable servants!” And so the apostles said. And St. Paul — he did not distribute letters of such fellowship; rather, in his letter to the Romans, in that to the Corinthians, and in all his epistles except those written to the Hebrews, to Timothy, and to Titus, he always asked the faithful Christians to pray for him; but they, as if they already had a surplus to give away, distribute it to others! And it is a remarkable thing that they give these letters to those who are wealthy and from whom they have hope of receiving something in return, but they give nothing to the poor! And it is the same with membership in confraternities.

### \[K\]

But they must know that all faithful Christians, fulfilling the commandments of their father, Christ the Savior, are sons of God and true brothers in spiritual birth;
