---
reading: hus-simony
page: 80
pdf_page: 106
sortable_pagination_id: 106
---

in rioting and drunkenness.” See, then, St. Paul calls rioting and drunkenness works of darkness, because they lead into eternal darkness and because they dim a man’s reason, so that he does not know himself nor God the Lord. What benefit, then, are those feasts to those brothers? It is a remarkable thing! They wish to obtain by their frequent pleasures the forgiveness of sins and deliverance from hell — and yet the rich man, as the Savior testifies, \[Luke 16:19–23\] who feasted sumptuously or lavishly every day, is buried in hell! What other sins are committed in that brotherhood — that sitting at table feasting without restraint, they speak malicious, slanderous, vain, and lying words — we shall know when on the day of judgment we receive the recompense for our deeds.

There is still the matter of how simoniacal religious handle burial, about which I ought to write, but it would take long; therefore I leave that, and a great deal more besides. But perhaps some religious who loves God will ask, saying: How am I to act, being subject to a superior, so that I may not be a participant in the sin of simony? To this I say that he must speak against it and stand firm against it. And if he says: I will be put in prison! — I answer that blessed will he be if he suffers for the truth and does not consent to evil, and if he dies in prison: what better thing can befall him in this world than holy martyrdom? And I know for certain that when he takes a stand to maintain poverty, freedom from private property, chastity, continence, and the love of Christ, they will immediately set upon him! And if he says that they ought not to accumulate wealth and ought to guard themselves from other sins, as
