---
reading: hus-simony
page: 84
pdf_page: 110
sortable_pagination_id: 110
---

of good life and honorable conduct, such that he has a good testimony from the people and no one knows him to have lived wickedly, and whether he is able to govern the people through Scripture; if so, then in God’s name they ought to entrust souls to him and say: Go, preach the word of God to the people, and be yourself first of good life — for so Christ sent the apostles, and so the apostles sent other holy men. And if something must still be written for him, then I say: they ought to write it for him for God’s sake. The master said: What are the scribes to live on? I said to him that the archbishop ought to provide for their needs; for he has several thousands in revenue precisely so that he may maintain the necessary officials for the governance and service of the people; for the archbishopric was not endowed in order that they should lead a life of pride amid a great retinue of servants unnecessary to the office, and waste and squander goods donated for God’s sake. Then that master grew angry at me and said: You always want things to go your own way! And I answered: Not my way, but Christ’s way, who says: *You have received freely, give freely*, and in accordance with the will of the apostles and of the other saints. And so he left me in anger.

And if the scribe, as Saint Gregory prescribed, were to ask nothing, and this one who receives ecclesiastical authority were to give something of his own free and unconstrained will, then \[the scribe\] would be able to receive it. But if \[the scribe\] were still to say that the document must be paid for, then I say: a letter is worth two pennies; for how much then must one give two kopas, another five, another four? No one can say in truth that paper, wax, or writing costs so much,
