---
reading: hus-simony
page: 86
pdf_page: 111
sortable_pagination_id: 111
---

and that they give nothing else besides these things, only spiritual authority. How can it be said in truth that they are not selling that authority for money? And that the document is not worth so much is shown by the fact that, once received, it is thrown into a corner or into the mud.

But the priest says: A church has been given to me, and they are unwilling to give me authority without money; what am I to do? I answer, as I have instructed many, that he should go to the archbishop and say: Priest! I have been called to govern God’s people at this church. I ask also, for the Lord God’s sake, give me your blessing, that I may lead these people in God’s way. If he gives it, thanks be to God, \[the priest\] receives the blessing; if he does not give it and sends him among the scribes, let him say to him: Priest! My lord or the community sent me without money; you too ought to give me a spiritual thing without money. And since you are unwilling, behold, I am going and shall return \[the living\] to those who sent me. And coming before the patrons, let him say to them or to his lord: You have given me authority over this alms and this church, that I might govern the people, and the bishop is unwilling to give me spiritual authority without money; therefore I return it to you, for I am unwilling to enter through simony.

But immediately you object to this: If it ought to be so, then no one would give money, and the officials would not permit \[anyone in\]; if everyone acted thus, no one would be a parish priest. To this I say: if everyone did so, the officials would be compelled willy-nilly to admit them. But again you say: If I do not give money, another will. To this I say: if you wish to excuse yourself by that argument, then even the executioner, even the tor-
