---
reading: hus-simony
page: 89
pdf_page: 114
sortable_pagination_id: 114
---

groschen; and perhaps this is a memorial to Judas, who sold the Savior for thirty pieces of silver! And some priests take so many masses upon themselves that, were they to celebrate five or six or ten each day, they could not fulfil them in fifty years! But they say: What am I to do when someone comes to me wanting thirty masses and asks me \[to say them\]? And I answer: you ought to say: Dear brother, all the masses in the world are yours, if you are in God’s grace. And I am ordained so as to celebrate mass, whenever I can, always by God’s grace, in such a way that I have no more obligation to celebrate masses for money than what I must celebrate by grace; therefore I cannot bind myself to you, nor is it proper for me to do so. Go with God’s blessing! But I know this — that for a greedy heart it will be hard to let money go; and so the greedy struggle \[with the question\] whether with thirty masses they can discharge the obligation of two or three persons \[at once\], and again whether they can satisfy a full mass with a collect, that is, by inserting a prayer into a mass. And so they twist and turn this way and that.

But a priest of free spirit, not taking such money upon himself, is certain that he does not commit simony and has no such burden on his soul. Therefore, when good priests, coming to me, have asked how they ought to conduct themselves in this matter, I told them to avoid it. And if someone should ask, saying: I beg you for God’s sake, take this money and say thirty masses for me, or however many he named — \[I said\] that he should tell him: I do not wish to say masses for money, nor to break the established order; therefore I do not want your
