---
reading: hus-simony
page: 94
pdf_page: 120
sortable_pagination_id: 120
---

therefore, leaving error behind, let us walk in truth.” And again he says: “Not human error is to be followed, but divine truth.” And Saint Ambrose says: We condemn all novelties which Christ did not teach. And Saint Isidor says: An evil custom overcomes the law of God and reason. And Saint Gregory says: Since Paul says, “No one can lay any foundation other than that which has been laid, which is Christ Jesus,” it follows that where there is no foundation of Christ, there is no building of good works. So says Saint Gregory.

### \[H\]

Behold, then, you have many great witnesses that no evil custom, however ancient, is to be maintained; for every such custom is against God, against his law, and against reason. And since no good building can exist where Christ is not the foundation, and since Christ established that clergy should give spiritual things freely for the sake of salvation, saying: “Freely you have received, freely give,” therefore it is the devil’s counter-establishment that says: Do not give freely, but take! You have baptism, confession, holy oil, ordination, masses and absolution, burial, prayers and vigils, prebends, altars, churches and preaching, the administration of the Body of God and confirmation, reception into the \[religious\] rule and its confirmation, indulgences and the issuing of judgments — sell all these! You yourselves have bought them, you cannot give them freely; and fulfill these words for me: Let no one give freely, for no one has received freely. Thus the devil counsels — he who has established an unworthy custom, so that priests do not give the gifts of the Holy Spi-
