---
reading: hus-simony
page: 95
pdf_page: 121
sortable_pagination_id: 121
---

rit freely, but instead solicit, appraise, sell, and summon people before the courts on their account. Therefore this evil custom must be abolished. And whatever custom harmonizes with the law of Christ is honorable, venerable, and worthy of praise, and no one should destroy it. For if someone were to destroy it, how could he not be against Christ? And if he were to hold stubbornly to it against the custom of Christ, how would he not fall into heresy? And since this custom of Christ is honorable — that priests should give the gifts of the Holy Spirit freely, compelling neither beforehand nor afterward — therefore any custom opposed to it is accursed. Therefore, faithful priests, let us not heed what others say, but let us fulfill what Christ commands. Let us give God’s gifts freely; for living well and giving thus, we shall receive from him an incomparably better reward after our death.

### \[J\]

As for the manner in which canons and parish priests misuse the alms given for God’s sake, one common practice is this: they lavish gifts on their relatives, so that people may think them well-born; and sometimes they give to others who are not their relatives, so that those others might be called of their stock. In this way, the utterly despised are elevated in the world, and sometimes they disown their own fathers and other poor relatives, or are ashamed of them. And in helping their relatives, as I said before, they have this argument: that by nature and by God’s commandment a man must love his father, mother, and kin more than strangers. And this argument moves many to accumulate many a benefice — just
