---
reading: hus-simony
page: 96
pdf_page: 122
sortable_pagination_id: 122
---

as they themselves acknowledge, saying that they receive \[these benefices\] so that they may help their poor relatives. But this worldly aggrandizement brings the faith of the Lord Jesus Christ into disrepute; for though Christ was the most worthy of men, he deigned to be born of a humble family. For who were more confined than the sons of Israel — four hundred years in Egypt and more, as Scripture shows — so that both Christ and David, his ancestor, were born of a lowly people! Yet Christ was the noblest of all, and David also noble in virtue and therefore worthy; but the world takes no account of this, and dismisses it. For which king in the Old Testament was nobler than David, though in his youth he was a shepherd and in his forebears a despised slave in Egypt, as Scripture shows?

Therefore, what benefit is it to a man — and especially to a priest — to boast of lineage, or, not being nobly born according to the world’s reckoning, to wish to be called noble? Does he not think he would sin gravely by being ashamed of his kin and wishing to boast of another’s while alive? Behold, Christ says: “He who loves his father or mother” — and still more so distant relatives — “more than me, is not worthy of me.” Therefore those who, out of pride, set love of their relatives above love of Christ are not true followers of Christ. And since under great penalty we must all follow Christ, and he, being the highest bishop and almighty, did not enrich his bodily mother or his personal friends in the world, but left them for a time
