---
reading: hus-simony
page: 98
pdf_page: 123
sortable_pagination_id: "98"
---

to remain in notable poverty: how then does a priest follow Christ who enriches his relatives? Again, as the saints say, what a priest has in endowment is the alms of the poor; therefore it is not fitting that, by diverting the alms of the poor away from them, he should enrich his relatives. And so you have it that priests sin when they enrich their relatives with church endowments. As for the argument when it is said: by nature and by God’s commandment a man must love his father and mother and other relatives more than strangers — to this the answer may be that if the father or mother, or some other relative, is in need and is a lover of God’s law, then a priest may from godly charity help him so that he does not suffer want. But this is far removed from enriching him and elevating him out of pride; for then he would be acting according to God’s commandment.

There are yet other ways in which priests sin. The first of their customs is that they feed many flatterers, so that those flatterers may praise them as generous, and they invite the wealthy — contrary to the teaching of Christ who says: “When you give a dinner or a supper, do not call your friends and the rich.” The second custom is that they maintain retinues unnecessary to the priestly office, such as: huntsmen, chamberlains, and many pages. The third custom is that they purchase many unnecessary implements, such as: silver dishes, goblets, spoons, cushions and proud beds, and many other things. The fourth custom is that they build excessively costly houses; they tear down good ones in which they could live well, and build others; and if they do not find them to their liking, they immediately demolish and build yet other
