---
reading: burton-simony
page: 1
pdf_page: 17
sortable_pagination_id: 17
---

# A CENSURE OF SIMONY.

Here first I may seem to usurp the mathematician’s privilege, in begging a supposition — that such a thing exists as simony. For in the opinion of many, simony has lost its existence in the nature of things, having long ago been antiquated and gone out of date, dead and buried with Simon himself. And if (as Chrysostom says) the gift of conferring the Holy Ghost was peculiar to the Apostles alone — so that not even Philip, when baptizing, also conferred the Holy Ghost, for that gift was proper only to the twelve — and if simony takes its name from Simon the originator, and Simon’s sin concerned the buying of the Holy Ghost: then, that gift having ceased and Simon being deceased, where is there so much as left the name of simony, to lend a title to our intended treatise? The Germans have very good laws to punish drunkenness, but they find it very hard to define what drunkenness is. So in England, we have good laws to punish adultery, but we find great difficulty in convicting anyone of committing the act of adultery. So it may be said of simony. First, therefore, let us see what simony is.

## CHAP. I.

Wherein simony is defined, first generally and broadly, then more strictly and exactly.

For the definition of simony, briefly, we may refer it to the authority and testimony of two sources especially: to wit, the canonists and scholastics, who have been the most exact observers and compilers of what has been delivered by the most learned doctors of the Church from time to time touching the nature of this matter.
