---
reading: burton-simony
page: 10
pdf_page: 26
sortable_pagination_id: 26
---

holy to the Lord of the New Testament: and to us there is but one Lord.

And tell me, foolish self-deceiving simoniac, whoever you are — tell me when and where tithes ceased to be sacred; and if you cannot tell, how dare you call them temporalities? But let me tell you by the Word of the Lord that tithes are perpetually sacred. Search the Scriptures. Go learn what that means: “Abraham gave Melchizedek tithe of all.” If you do not understand it, ask the Apostle; and it is worth the consideration. “For consider,” he says, “how great this man was, unto whom even the patriarch Abraham gave tithe of the spoils.” Abraham, the father of all the faithful — not of the Jews only, but of us Gentiles also — paid tithe of all. To whom? To Melchizedek. And what was this Melchizedek? Priest of the most high God, King of Righteousness, King of Salem: in all, a perfect type of Christ our eternal high Priest, the Lord our righteousness, Prince of Peace. Did Abraham then, the father of the faithful — yes, the type of God’s faithful Church, in the loins of whose faith (as I may say) were all the faithful — give the tithe of all to Melchizedek, the true type of Christ our eternal high Priest and the minister of a better Testament? And shall we doubt to tread in the steps of faithful Abraham, unless we will be bastards and not sons? And if the Apostle uses it as an argument to prove Christ’s Priesthood more excellent than Aaron’s, inasmuch as even Levi in the loins of Abraham paid tithes to Melchizedek — how do we then uphold and maintain this prerogative of Christ’s Priesthood while we either deny or diminish his right of tithes in the ministry of the New Testament? Since Aaron, who was far inferior, received tithes in the Old; yes, rather, if the Levitical Priesthood, being inferior, received tithes, then the Evangelical, being superior, much more. And why is Levi said in the loins of Abraham to have paid tithes to Melchizedek? But plainly to give us to understand that this payment implied an acknowledgment of Christ their Sovereign Lord and true high Priest,
