---
reading: burton-simony
page: 100
pdf_page: 116
sortable_pagination_id: 116
---

*s upon it. One asked sometimes how it was, that in Athens, so goodly and great a City, there were no Physicians. To whom the answer was made, because there are no rewards appointed for them that practice physic. The same answer may be made for our times; the cause why the Church of God is so forsaken, is the want of zeal toward those who should either for their generosity, or for their ability, be fosterers of learning, and increase the livings, where occasion is, and give hope and comfort to learned men. What said I? Increase? Nay the livings and provision, which heretofore were given to this use, are taken away. Have patience, if any such be here (as I well know there are) whom these things touch. Suffer me to speak the truth, it is God’s cause. The livings of such, as are in the Ministry, are not in their hands, to whom they are due. All other Laborers and Artificers have their hire increased double as much, as it was wont to be: only the poor man that labors and sweats in the Vineyard of the Lord of hosts, has his hire abridged and abated. I speak not of the Curates, but of the Parsonages and Vicarages, that is of the places, which are the Castles and Towers of defense for the Lord’s Temple. They seldom pass now-a-days from the Patron, if he be no better than a Gentleman, but either for the Lease, or for ready money. Such Merchants are broken into the Church of God, a great deal more intolerable, than were they, whom Christ whipped and chased out of the Temple. Thus they that should be careful for God’s Church, that should be Patrons to provide for the consciences of the people, and to place among them a learned Minister, who might be able to preach the Word unto them out of season and in season, and to fulfill his Ministry, seek their own, and not that which is Jesus Christ’s. They serve not Jesus Christ, but their belly. And this is done not in one place, or in one Country, but throughout England. A Gentleman cannot keep his house, unless he has a Parsonage or two in farm for his provision.*

O merciful God, to what will this grow at last? If the misery that this plague works would reach but to one age, it were the more tolerable. But it will be a plague to posterity; it will be the decay and desolation of God’s Church. Young men, which are
