---
reading: burton-simony
page: 101
pdf_page: 117
sortable_pagination_id: 117
---

are forward and learned, see this. They see that he who feeds the flock has the least share of the milk; he who goes to war does not receive half his wages. Therefore they grow weary and discouraged; they change their studies — some become apprentices, some turn to medicine, some to law: all shun and flee the ministry. And besides the hindrance that thus grows from the wicked dealing of patrons, by reason of the impropriation \[the appropriation of church revenues by laymen\], the vicarages in many places, and in the most prominent market towns, are so meager that no man can live upon them, and therefore no man will accept them. They used to say, *Beneficia sine Cura* — benefices without charge; but now it might be said, *Cura sine Beneficio* — charge or cure without benefice. Thus, and much more to this purpose, said that peerless Jewel. And he concludes with a grave exhortation to her Majesty, as follows: *Oh, that your Grace might behold the miserable disorder of God’s Church, or that you might foresee the calamities that will follow. It is a part of your kingdom — and such a part as is the principal prop and stay of the rest. I will say to your Majesty what Cyrillus once said to the godly emperors Theodosius and Valentinian: “Ab ea, quae erga Deum est, pietate, reipub. vestrae status pendet” — the good estate and welfare of your commonwealth hangs upon true godliness. You are our Governor; you are the Nurse of God’s Church. We must lay this grief before you. God knows whether it can be redressed, it has run so far. But if it can be redressed, there is none besides your Highness who can redress it. I hope I speak truly, and without flattery, that God has endued your Grace with such a measure of learning and knowledge as no other Christian prince. He has given you peace, happiness, the love and the hearts of your subjects. Oh, turn and employ these to the glory of God, that God may confirm in your Grace the thing he has begun. To this end has God placed kings and princes in their estate, as David says: that they serve the Lord; that they may see, and cause others to see to the furnishing of the Church. The good emperor Justinian cared for this as much as for his life. Constantine, Theodosius, and Valentinian, and other godly princes, called themselves *Vassallos* — the sub-*
