---
reading: burton-simony
page: 102
pdf_page: 118
sortable_pagination_id: 118
---

subjects and bondservants of God. They remembered that God furnished them in their houses, and were not unmindful to furnish his house.

To this purpose also, a grave and learned, now a prelate of this church, in his sermon at Paul’s Cross, spoke thus: *We who are bred up in learning and destined by our parents to this end — we suffer our childhood in the grammar school, which Augustine calls “Magnam tyrannidem, et grave malum” \[a great tyranny and a grave evil\], comparing it to the torments of martyrdom; when we come to the university, if we live on the college allowance, as Phalaris objected to the Leontines,* παντων ενδεῖς, πλην λιμοῦ καὶ φόβου, *needy of all things but hunger and fear; or if we are maintained but partly by our parents’ cost, we expend in university maintenance, books, and degrees, before we come to any perfection, five hundred pounds or a thousand marks — if by this price of the expenditure of our time, our bodies and spirits, our substance and patrimonies, we cannot purchase those small rewards which are ours by law and right of inheritance, a poor parsonage or a vicarage of fifty pounds per annum, but we must pay the patron for the lease of a life (a spent and outworn life) either in annual pension or above the rate of a copyhold, and that with the hazard and loss of our souls through simony and perjury, and the forfeiture of all our spiritual preferment in esse and posse \[in present possession and in future expectation\], both present and to come: what father, after a while, will be so improvident as to bring up his son, at great cost, to this necessary beggary? What Christian will be so irreligious as to bring up his son in that course of life which, by all probability and necessity, “Cogit ad turpia” \[forces him to shameful things\], will entangle him in simony and perjury?* whereas the poet says, *Invitatus ad haec aliquis de ponte negabit* — a beggar’s brat taken from the bridge where he sits begging, if he knew the inconvenience, would have cause to refuse it. So he. Let me conclude it with the words of our Democritus \[Robert Burton\]: *This being thus, says he, have we not fished fairly all this while, we who are initiated divines, to find no better fruits of our labor? “Hoc est cur palles? cur quis non prandeat, hoc est?” \[Is this why you grow pale? Is this why a man goes without dinner?\] Do we macerate ourselves for this? If this is all the respect, reward, and honor we shall have, “Frange leves calamos, et scinde Thalia libel-*
