---
reading: burton-simony
page: 103
pdf_page: 119
sortable_pagination_id: 119
---

*libellos* — let us give over our books and betake ourselves to some other course of life. To what end shall we study? “Quid me literulas stulti docuere parentes?” \[What did my foolish parents mean by making me a scholar?\] — to be as far from advancement, after twenty years of study, as we were at first? Why do we take such pains? “Quid tantum insanis iuvat impallescere chartis?” \[What pleasure is there in growing pale over mad pages?\] So he.* *Honos alit Artes* — honor and reward is the maintainer of arts. But the ministry is the art of arts. And shall we call that which God and man have appointed for the maintenance of the ministry a reward for a minister? Alas — God help us, if this were our reward, which at the most bears no proportion to the work of a minister. For if we have sown unto you spiritual things, is it a great matter if we reap your carnal things? Indeed — *Non magnum, sed minimum*, says Anselm — *a very small matter*. But shall the work of our ministry so infinitely exceed that which in no proportion can be reckoned a reward — and yet can we not have this poor recompense of our labor (though not of our function) to sustain our poor bodies and studies, but we must pay as dearly for it as he who never saw a school may pay for this or any temporal commodity? If so, then *frange leves calamos, et scinde Thalia libellos* — away with learning, and consequently away with the ministry; yes, farewell to all good ministers. For every minister should be an honest man, and no honest man will be a corrupt minister; and consequently, no honest minister will be a simoniac. Does not simony then tend to the utter abolition of the ministry? And what other ministry can be expected in a church where simony reigns, than such as existed under Jeroboam? To whom Abijah king of Judah said: *Have you not driven away the priests of the Lord, the sons of Aaron and the Levites, and have made for yourselves priests like the people of other countries? Whosoever comes to consecrate with a young bullock and seven rams, the same may be a priest.* So simony drives away all good men, and admits into the church those who are corrupt — the basest of the people. Master Perkins, that reverend man of God, cites this as
