---
reading: burton-simony
page: 104
pdf_page: 120
sortable_pagination_id: 120
---

one of the main reasons for the rarity and scarcity of good ministers — namely, the want of maintenance and preferment for men who labor in this calling. And what difference is there, I pray you, between want of maintenance or preferment, and the buying and purchasing of them? For so, preferment becomes a recompense for my money, not for my ministry. I will set out the words of that good man. *Men, says he, are flesh and blood, and in that respect must be allured and won to embrace this vocation by some arguments that may persuade flesh and blood. The world has in all ages been negligent in this matter, and therefore God in his Law took such strict order for the maintenance of the Levites. But especially now under the Gospel, this calling is unprovided for, when it deserves most of all to be rewarded. Certainly — if God’s law did not bind us — it were a worthy Christian policy to propose good preferments to this calling, that thereby men of the worthiest gifts might be won to it. The want thereof is the cause why so many young men of special parts and greatest hope turn to other vocations, and especially to the law, wherein at this day the greatest part of the finest wits of our kingdom are employed. And why? But because they have all the means to rise, whereas the ministry for the most part yields nothing but a plain way to beggary. This is a great blemish in our church; and surely I wish the papists — those children of this world — were not wiser in their kind in this point than the church of God. The reformation of this is a work worthy the labor of a prince and people, and special care is to be had in it, else it will not be reformed. For doubtless, had not God himself in the Old Testament taken such strict orders for the livings of the Levites, they would have been put to no less extremities than is the ministry of this age. And this reason, added to the other, makes them perfect; and all put together makes a reason infallible. For who will undergo so vile a contempt, and so great a charge, for no reward? And where there is so great contempt and so mean a reward, what marvel if a good minister is one of a thousand?* So this holy man. By all which we may both see the misery of the ministry of a church where not only the one half of church mainte-
