---
reading: burton-simony
page: 105
pdf_page: 121
sortable_pagination_id: 121
---

maintenance is impropriate. But the other \[i.e., the other half of church maintenance\] is for the most part in the hands of hucksters, its proper character as a preferment and reward for a faithful minister having been altered by simony — made, as it were, impropriate too — and consequently we cannot but feel, and still more fear, the grievous effects thereof, both in Church and Commonwealth.

Again, inasmuch as simoniacs are the most formidable non-residents — making use of their benefices as fishers do of their lesser fish, as bait to catch the greater, and so leaving the sweet fresh rivers at home to go fish abroad in the open sea (for *there is no fishing like the sea, nor service like a king’s*) — whereas they might wisely, like the vine and fig-tree and olive-tree, enjoy their sweet private life in God’s vineyard, feeding their harmless flock, and not, like the bramble Abimelech, aspire to become, as Saint Peter says, κυριεύοντες ἐπὶ κλήρων \[“lording it over the flock”\]: not examples to the flock. Doing so, what else can come of it but pitiful ruin, both to themselves and to the flock of God? For simony necessarily implies non-residence. For first, a simoniac, after the payment of his initial purchase, is commonly forced to live privately, to let out his parsonage on lease, defrauding the poor of their hospitality relief, and to go skulk in some corner of the city or other, and there thrust himself into some lectureship: there he gathers up his crumbs again. And after some miserable difficulty in recovering himself, does he then retire home to feed his flock? Far from it. But like Issachar, he is like a strong donkey crouching between two burdens; he sees that rest is good and the land pleasant, and now begins he tooth and nail to gather another stock, to purchase another preferment — and that done, after a while another — and so the tide at last comes in so fast upon him that it bears up his bark, now ready-rigged for any port of preferment or prelacy, like some traveling adventurers who for gain will hazard their lives in some far and dangerous voyage — but herein unlike them: those go with a mind and hope to return home; these sel-
