---
reading: burton-simony
page: 106
pdf_page: 122
sortable_pagination_id: 122
---

seldom or never so much as once look back toward their more humble home on the plain, fearing, as it were, the punishment of Lot’s wife — so eager are they, on the wings of ambition, to fly to the highest summit of preferment, as if there were no safety but there. Those again lay out one \[coin\] to receive three or four at their return; these will give three for one if they never return. Whence, what mischief to the Church? What decay of religion? What coldness of devotion? What contempt of the sacred calling? What scandal to the Gospel? What ignorance — the mother of popish devotion, indeed of all impiety and profaneness, of all heresy and superstition? — all threatening imminent and inevitable danger (if it be not the sooner prevented by a happy reformation) both to Church and Commonwealth. It would be endless to muster up all the mischiefs that follow from this one general \[sin\], simony. A worthy minister once of this Church said: *A simoniac is a perpetual care-worn bond-slave to his patron. He has no warrant to teach the people, and commonly less success. Whereas if a man be sent of God to govern a people, however ignorant and fierce, God will put his hand between and tame them.* According to the word of the prophet, Jeremiah 23:32: *I sent not those prophets, nor commanded them; therefore they shall not profit this people at all, says the Lord.*

I will conclude therefore with two or three zealous and pithy admonitions of Gregory to this purpose. In his 64th Epistle to Queen Brunichilda he earnestly exhorts her to root out from her kingdom this heresy of simony, saying: *Providete animae vestrae, etc.* — Have a care of your soul; have a care of your posterity, to whom you wish a happy reign; have a care of your provinces; and before our Creator puts forth his hand to smite, bethink yourself most carefully of the correction of this sin. And in his 51st Epistle to Virgilius, Bishop of Arles: *Constat etc.* — It is reported that in the provinces of France and Germany none is admitted to holy orders without giving a bribe; if it be so — I speak it with tears, I denounce it with grief — that the priestly order being decayed inwardly, the outward
