---
reading: burton-simony
page: 107
pdf_page: 123
sortable_pagination_id: 123
---

ward state of it cannot stand. And in Epistle 54 he exhorts Theodoric the French King to assemble a synod: *Misse etc.* — That all evil conduct of the priests, and the simoniacal heresy, which first arose in the Church through impious ambition, may by the definitive sentence of the council, backed with the censure of your authority, be taken away and torn up by the roots: lest, if gold be held in more esteem than God, he whose gentleness is now despised in his precepts may afterwards cause his wrath to be felt in revenge. And Epistle 57 to Queen Brunichilda: *Synodum etc.* — Call a synod, and among other things carefully cause the heresy of simony to be banished from your kingdom. For believe me, as we have learned by manifold experience, that is to be reckoned among our losses, whatsoever is gained by sin. If therefore you would be defrauded of nothing unjustly, be careful to possess nothing unjustly. For in earthly things the cause of damage always originates from sin. If therefore you would outstrip your adversary nations, if by God’s assistance you desire the conquest of them, receive with reverence the commandments of the same Almighty Lord, that he may vouchsafe to fight for you against your foes, who has in his holy oracle promised, saying: *The Lord shall fight for you, and you shall hold your peace.* So this last good Bishop of Rome. Now may the Almighty Lord God give grace to this Church and Commonwealth, that for the still-flourishing of his glorious Gospel among us, the good of our souls, the welfare of our estates, the settling of our peace, the securing of our posterity, and the subduing of all our enemies, there may be stirred up in us all a godly care and conscience, to join hearts and hands together for the utter extirpation (if possible) of this mother-sin of simony.

### Chapter XVI.

### Of the cutting off, or curing of simony.

Although, when the article of simony (among other enormities) came to be considered at the
