---
reading: burton-simony
page: 11
pdf_page: 27
sortable_pagination_id: 27
---

as in whose title and right alone they also received tithes. Hence it is that all the Levites paid the tenth of their tenths to Aaron the high Priest and to his successors — he being also a type of Christ. Let even the spirit of contradiction itself but note how frequently and how effectually the Apostle presses the right of tithes resident in Christ, as a notable proof of the eternity of his Priesthood. For in the seventh chapter to the Hebrews, the Apostle mentions this argument of tithes no fewer than six or seven times: as at verses 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9. He therefore who denies tithes to be due to Christ in the ministry of the New Testament — what does he do but deny the eternity of Christ’s Priesthood, the ministration of which must continue until time shall be no more? Yes, he must also deny that Melchizedek was a true type of Christ, by virtue of receiving tithes — if now tithes are not really due to Christ in the New Testament, as they were typically prefigured in the Old.

Again, when did tithes first begin to be paid? Was it not so long before the Law was given, or the Levites born? Could the Levitical Law then annul the nature of tithes, so that they should not forever continue sacred, being before the Law consecrated in act by our father Abraham, the type of Christ’s Church, unto Melchizedek the type of our eternal high Priest Christ Jesus? *Decimas Deo, & Sacerdotibus Dei dandas Abraham factis, & Iacob promissis insinuat; & omnes Sancti Doctores commemorant* — “That tithes are to be given to God and to the Priests of God, both Abraham by fact and Jacob by vow doth insinuate; and all holy Doctors do avouch it.” *Admonemus vel præcipimus, vt Decima de omnibus Dari non negligatur quia Deus ipse sibi Dari constituit* — “We admonish and command that the tenth of all things be not neglected to be paid, because God himself has ordained it to be given to himself.” And the perpetuity of Christ’s Priesthood is proved by the paying of tithes, as Hebrews 7:8: “There he receives tithes, of whom it is witnessed that he lives.” Or let the simoniac go learn what that means: “Even so has
