---
reading: burton-simony
page: 110
pdf_page: 126
sortable_pagination_id: 126
---

but forever after deprived and disabled from being capable of any presentative power. And this stands with good reason and equity, seeing the sin of the seller — except that the condition of his person may somewhat extenuate it, in comparison with the buyer, if the buyer be a sacred person — is not inferior to that of the buyer. For as Gelasius says, *Dantes pariter & accipientem damnatio Simonis involuit*: the giver, together with the receiver, is involved in the same damnation of Simon. And the buyer — we know — the *relative peccant* \[the counterpart offender\], is by ancient canons deprived and dispossessed of all spiritual promotion and ministerial function, both for the present and the future. And if either shall be found perjured, let them undergo the penalty of perjury. Paulus Venetus, in part 2, to restrain the sin of simony, says: *Cum detestabile Scelus Simoniaca pravitatis tam Divinorum, quam Sacrorum Canonum authoritas, abhorreat atque damnet: nos considerantes, quod plures pœnarum gravitas, quam Dei Timor arcere solet a voluntate peccandi, ac summis desideriis affectantes, ut horum pestiferum vitium non ex usu solum, sed etiam mentibus hominum, saltem propter pœnarum metum penitus evellatur, &c.* — that is: seeing the authority as well of divine as of sacred canons does abhor and condemn the detestable sin of simoniacal depravity, we considering that the greatness of punishments is commonly of more force to restrain most men from proneness to sin than the fear of God; and earnestly desiring that the pestiferous vice of these men may be altogether rooted out, at least for the fear of penalties, not only from practice but also from the minds of men, etc. He includes and involves all, of whatever degree or dignity, whether civil or ecclesiastical, givers or receivers, principals or accessories, in the same penalty of simony — and that is, suspension from the execution of their place and function, and excommunication, not to be absolved except by the Pope himself, save in the very point of death. *Extrav. cons. lib. 3. de Simonia.*

And here let me crave leave to relate a passage in the Council of Trent concerning this purpose: which, whether it may be thought a good rule and law for us for the better
