---
reading: burton-simony
page: 112
pdf_page: 128
sortable_pagination_id: 128
---

*there be appointed at every year’s diocesan synod of the bishop, or his deputy at the visitation, six examiners approved by the whole synod: that at the vacancy of any church in the diocese, the bishop may choose three of those examiners, as he will, to join with him in the examination of a fit succeeding incumbent. And these examiners, being men of quality, shall swear by the holy Evangelist that, setting aside all human affection, they shall faithfully execute their office. And let them take heed that upon the occasion of their examination, neither before nor after, they finger any fee: lest otherwise, as well they the receivers as their givers incur the sin of simony, from which they cannot be absolved unless they forgo all their benefices, upon whatever condition formerly obtained, and become incapable of any afterwards. And at every provincial synod they may be called to account, and if they be found faulty, to be punished as the synod shall appoint. Now upon every such aforesaid examination, those whom the examiners approve of most for their sufficiency shall be commended to the bishop; and of those, let the bishop choose him whom he shall judge most fit, and upon him and none else shall the patron confer the benefice. All other forms of institution, let them be held surreptitious, notwithstanding any exemption or privilege heretofore granted to the contrary, to whomsoever.*

Thus this Council. And although I confess that this chapter — as also the whole Council, containing the whole mystery of iniquity — is very perplexedly compiled, as if the Council meant no such matter, though so speciously pretended (as the judicious reader may easily discern when he reads the chapter itself, being full of reservations and equivocations), yet the reading of this riddle may open a way to stop and stay this fretting gangrene. The pearls gathered out of this mud may serve to hold our simoniacal merchant from dealing in other merchandise; a sword framed out of this forge may cut off the head of simony; and a line drawn from the windings of this circle may regulate and confine all irregular and simoniacal persons.

Yet
