---
reading: burton-simony
page: 113
pdf_page: 129
sortable_pagination_id: 129
---

Yet after all these ways — which may perhaps prove either burdensome to one who has not gone through them before (as for the patron to be put to the oath) or laborious to make them practicable — there is a shorter route (I confess) to a speedier reformation, though it is very hard to hit upon. It cannot be better described than by setting down an example or two of those who have gone this way. And here we have a noble precedent in the Emperor Henry IV. It is recorded by the late reverend Bishop of Winchester, in his book on Christian subjection and Antichristian rebellion, the third part, and taken from Lamberti Scafnaburgensis, in the year 1075: that this Henry IV, during the vacancy of the Abbey of Fulda, being solicited very ambitiously by sundry monks and friars — competitors for the place — on the sudden, as though led by a divine spirit, chose one Ruozelin, a good honest poor monk who had no thought of any such thing. The like also this emperor did upon the vacancy of the Abbey of Lorsch.

For conclusion, it is to be wished that, for the more careful cure of this accursed and cancerous sin, all — not only professed recusants, but church-papists, such as will come to church but once a month at most — may by act be both actually and potentially deprived and dispossessed of all presentative power whatsoever in disposing of any church living. And that for the better discovery \[of such persons\], every patron presenting shall promptly take oath, not only of allegiance but of supremacy, this being the *Lidius Lapis* \[Lydian stone\], or touchstone, to discern a true Christian from a counterfeit Catholic, and a good patron from a crafty Romish thief. For can the flock be in safety when the shepherd-dog is of the wolf’s providing? And will not such a wolf be sure to provide such a dog as the Holy Ghost speaks of by his prophet (Isaiah 56:10–11) — either some dumb dog, or a lazy and sleepy mongrel, or a ranging spaniel, or a ravening hound? Such as are muzzled: either ignorant and cannot, or can and will not, or would but dare not bark at sin and sinners? Or whose mangy manners are enough to infect
