---
reading: burton-simony
page: 114
pdf_page: 130
sortable_pagination_id: 130
---

his whole flock? Or whose ranging non-residence gives the wolf leave to prey all the more securely? Or whose rapacious and ravening avarice devours no less than does the wolf? Or, in one word, all of these: of necessity some grand simoniac, so deeply drenched and bemired with simony that he is for ever after (so indelible is this pitchy sin) both a laughing-stock to the wolf and a stumbling-block to his own flock. For a simoniac he must needs be — and that some unlettered blockhead whom popish patrons among us prefer to their benefices, accounting as money well spent what they bestow *in tam pios usus* \[on such pious uses\] as the maintenance of their mass-priests. So that by this means the wolf must be maintained by the simoniacal pastor.

### The Corollary: directed especially to all lay patrons and lay purchasers of the sacred portion.

Now before I close my little treatise, I entreat all lay persons — especially patrons of benefices, and also all such fathers as make no distinction between the purchase of a benefice and of a farm to leave as a portion for their children — that they would patiently peruse and wisely weigh these few lines. These lines proceed from a heart inflamed with the zeal of God’s glory, of the propagation of his Church, and of the soul’s salvation of all those whom it especially concerns; and I desire that they may be affectionately embraced and effectually followed by all. For since I speak to wise men, let me speak the more freely in few words. But they are the words of our Lord Jesus Christ: *What shall it profit a man, if he wins the whole world and loses his own soul?* Hereby the Lord implies that a man’s soul is infinitely of more value than the whole world. Now if it be so in the whole, what is it in every small part? What shall it profit a man, if
