---
reading: burton-simony
page: 117
pdf_page: 133
sortable_pagination_id: 133
---

be pardoned without speedy and heartfelt repentance, nor can that repentance ever be true or pleasing to God, unless you bestow freely and worthily even that which you dearly bought. You sinned in the buying of it, with an eye to gain; but your sin is doubled and *sealed up in a bag* if you sell it again. Therefore, in the fear of God, take heed to yourselves. The living is God’s, not yours. You hold it only in trust. Discharge your trust faithfully. So God will reward it. Otherwise, he will require it.

And you fathers, let me offer you a word of advice. You desire to leave your children portions for this life. I commend it. For *he that does not provide for his family has denied the faith and is worse than an infidel.* But let your provision (as I say) be honest. *Provide honest things beforehand*, says the Apostle, and that honestly. First, let your money be lawfully gotten. Next, if you will lay out a sum of money for the settling of your son’s patrimony, bestow it where you may lawfully do so. Take heed of purchasing what is God’s own patrimony — God’s tithes, or a benefice. Much less do so for one of your most unlikely sons, for him whom you do not know, or rather may suspect whether he will prove a scholar or not; or if scholar enough, whether an honest man; or if both, whether he may be fit for that holy calling, apt to teach, wise and faithful to go in and out before God’s people, family, and flock. *Who is a faithful and wise steward, whom his master may set over his household to give them their portion in due season?* For *who is sufficient for these things*, says the Apostle? Take heed, lest while you seek to purchase your son a father’s blessing, you procure for him an inevitable, an inheritable curse. Besides, though you are the principal simoniac in the purchase, yet he is the accessory in one degree or another — either he knows, or at least strongly suspects, that he comes in by purchase, and so by an implicit \[unquestioning\] faith he becomes a perjured simoniac. But if you will needs make your son a minister, let him be one of the best and most promising; and if you will needs purchase for him, let it be of
