---
reading: burton-simony
page: 118
pdf_page: 134
sortable_pagination_id: 134
---

such things as are common merchandise, not God’s inheritance. Tithes are sacred, not to be bought and sold, any more than the cure of souls or the calling of the ministry, upon which tithes attend as their ordinary maintenance. Meddle not you with that, for fear of Christ’s whip. He cannot endure buyers and sellers in his Temple. And does it not stand with good reason why laymen should not meddle with purchasing benefices, given that you have provided by strict law that ministers shall not meddle in purchasing your farms? And shall not God’s law be as powerful to restrain you from laying profane hands upon what is sanctified, as man’s laws are to prohibit ministers from purchasing a poor lease of a farm or tenement? Nay, rather let God’s law stand for ever inviolable; and consider with yourselves how reasonable your own law is, that upon any terms, without any express limitation, prohibits a minister from laying out a little money (if perhaps he has it) upon a poor lease that may be at least some stay for his poor wife and children when he is gone. Perhaps the first occasion of this law was some abuse. If so, as Saint Jerome said upon a like matter, I am not so sorry for the law as for the occasion of it. Yet if some men abuse wine, you do not at once make a law to forbid all men to drink any wine at all. But the way is to make a law against drunkenness — if we could as readily define what drunkenness is as we are sharp-sighted to condemn a minister for base covetousness, in case he had a farm in his possession. Indeed, if a minister should turn farmer and trader, relinquishing or neglecting his calling, let the law forbid that in any case. For as Saint Jerome says, *Flee the merchant-cleric, grown rich from poverty, grown renowned from obscurity, as you would some pestilence.* This would be for ministers to turn impropriators — the worst of all — to impropriate their sacred calling by muddying their hands, and more, their minds, by leaving off being the Lord’s husbandmen to become the world’s drudges. But however that may be, remove the abuse by law, and that even of the
