---
reading: burton-simony
page: 119
pdf_page: 135
sortable_pagination_id: 135
---

the Medes and Persians, which alters not. In the meantime be pleased to take into your consideration what equality there is (and consequently what equity) between your restraining ministers from the lawful purchase of your farms, and your unlimited purchasing of our proper freeholds — the purchase of which, however human law makes it current, yet divine law has proclaimed the contrary. Besides, if God’s law were silent or of no force, yet herein human and carnal reason might sway you. For consider, I pray you, and consult but with flesh and blood: in restraining ministers from that liberty, what do you but bring an old house upon your own heads? For do not ministers come out of your loins? Do you not make interchangeable and reciprocal marriages with them — except where any of the lay tribe (as too many there be) disdain to match with a priest, as they term us? Are not their children your grandchildren? Do not their sons match with your daughters, and their daughters with your sons? We are not, as once the Levites were, a tribe so select and so separate from the rest of our brethren, but that in all natural respects we hold in common with you. We who are now ministers were once (if you remember) your sons. And your sons may be (if you consider) ministers as we are. To whom, then, do you deny this liberty? Is it not to your own sons and daughters and grandchildren — even to your own flesh and blood? Say a minister, your son-in-law, dies poor, leaving a poor widow and so many small helpless orphans behind him: is she not still your daughter, and are not her babes your grandchildren, flesh of your flesh and bone of your bone? Well; you who cannot be content to give ministers liberty so much as to purchase a farm if they are able in their lifetime — and perhaps they were able, had money, but for want of such occasion to lay it out, spent it; now it is gone, and no sign of it, save perhaps a few books which at the bookbinder’s rate will not purchase the fourth part of a farm — yet no doubt (such are the bowels of natural love, yea
