---
reading: burton-simony
page: 12
pdf_page: 28
sortable_pagination_id: 28
---

the Lord ordained that they who preach the Gospel should live of the Gospel.” Who does not see that the Apostle there draws a parallel between the Levitical maintenance and the Lord’s Ordinance, the Altar and the Gospel together? And does not the Apostle there claim for himself a power in such maintenance as well as others? Mark: *power*. And whence, but from the Lord’s Ordinance? And where does the general practice of this Ordinance appear, but in the Levitical maintenance? And where has this maintenance its first foundation and institution (besides the Creation) but in Christ, figured in Melchizedek, who received tithes of Abraham, the father and figure of all the faithful, the Church of God? And shall not tithes then be forever sacred? And if sacred, is not he a profane simoniac who offers to buy them? Yes, moreover, are not the ministers of the Gospel called the sons of Levi? (Malachi 3:3). The text is pregnant and plain, and interpreters subscribe to the truth of it. Christ was to refine the sons of Levi, that they might offer to the Lord in righteousness — that is, his Apostles and Disciples of the Gospel. These are called the sons of Levi because they succeed Levi in the Ministry. And if we are Levi’s sons, who shall deny us Levi’s inheritance, seeing we are Levites to the same Lord, the perpetuity of whose Priesthood the payment of tithes to his Levites is a pregnant argument of? And if you deny him tithes, you must of necessity deny him the Priesthood too, and so conspire with the Jews to kill him, that the inheritance may be yours. Yes, we are Levi’s sons refined and purged from the refuse of legal types and ceremonies — and shall our tithes be less sacred! *Objection.* But some will say: we have no express Precept in the Gospel for the paying of tithes. I answer: there are demonstrations enough, and those most strong. But what need is there of any express Precept? The Precept is express enough in the Law. He who is better versed in the Law than in the Gospel, and sets more store by antiquities than verities — if the God of this world had not blinded his eyes, he might acknowledge the antiquity of this Precept in the Law to be
