---
reading: burton-simony
page: 120
pdf_page: 136
sortable_pagination_id: 136
---

yea and compassion in you) that you will not deny your daughter and grandchildren harbor and maintenance in this their distressed calamity. But now, if you find a yearning in your bowels upon better reason to repeal this law than perhaps that on which it was first grounded, yet for all that you must not think to claim the like liberty in purchasing God’s own patrimony, which is holy. Your doing God’s ministers right and reason gives you no warrant or privilege to wrong God. Do God right, and deny his ministers — your own bowels — no reason. But this by the way, to show that in no case are sacred tithes to be bought and sold.

No? In no case? Yes, in some case. There is a way of purchasing sacred tithes which would be both acceptable to God, profitable to his Church, and comfortable to the soul and conscience of the purchaser himself. How is that? But alas, where shall we find one purchaser? Yet we are not altogether hopeless. There are very many charitable and well-disposed Christian men and women in this our Church whom God has enabled as well with a generous hand as a gracious heart to leave goodly legacies to charitable uses — hospitals and the like — and no doubt more would do so if they could find executors or feoffees in trust who could but live to see the will of the testator duly executed. Now to all such well-disposed Christians who desire to make themselves friends of the unrighteous mammon and to lay up in store for themselves a good foundation for the time to come, that they may inherit eternal life — to such let me address my speech. How many have money to lay out upon land or so, and cannot find a suitable purchase? I will be your intelligencer to discover to you a fair purchase, so fair that I cannot but marvel that none has ever yet traded in it. Shall I tell you? The purchase of tithes. Why, that is no news. They are bought and sold everywhere. But I mean here the purchase of impropriate tithes. These also are commonly bought and sold. But I mean the purchasing of them, and the redeeming of them, to
