---
reading: burton-simony
page: 121
pdf_page: 137
sortable_pagination_id: 137
---

restore them to God again, for the maintenance of his Ministry. O noble purchase! So rare as to be unheard of. A worthy object, indeed, for every rich and good man to fix the eye of his charity upon — a worthy subject to deal in. Would you erect a new Hospital? Save your labor. You have already at your hand in an impropriated Parsonage both house and demesnes. Plant your hospital there. A hospital not only for poor bodies, but for poor souls too — poor, starved souls. For a Parsonage, being rightly used, is truly a hospital for the poor in both these kinds. O, lay out your money here. Christ made one invaluable and incomparable purchase, redeeming our souls with his most precious blood. That is indeed without parallel. All the merits of Saint Francis or Saint Dominic, with which the *Golden Legend* is stuffed, or the virtue of Our Lady’s Milk, as they call it, are not to be compared to That. But if any purchase may be named after That, in any relation, surely this purchase, of all others, is nearest of kin to it — not by way of merit, in no sense that; for it cost more to redeem their souls — but by way of means to save men’s souls. To purchase an impropriation and to restore it to the Church, to which it belongs and where it ought to be, is to purchase the means of saving so many souls, who for lack of that means do perish. For where the maintenance fails, the Ministry fails (for Ministers are men and cannot live on air), and consequently the people perish, for whom Christ died. O then, you Christian-hearted ones, whom the Lord has blessed with abundance, make your purchase here. O, how happy are you, that you may thus be the instruments of saving so many poor souls, by pulling them out of the fire, as Jude speaks! But you will say: how shall this be done? I will tell you — only entertain
