---
reading: burton-simony
page: 122
pdf_page: 138
sortable_pagination_id: 138
---

a certain such purpose in your heart, and God, who put it in your heart to will it, will also direct and enable you to do it, of his good pleasure. The ready way is, as one says: *Sapere aude, Incipe*, etc. — dare to be wise; begin. He who delays the time of doing good is like one who watches the river while it all runs out. Men are accustomed to put off their doing of good until their death. A dangerous adventure. For either they may be prevented by untimely and unexpected death, or after death their will may either be neglected by, or fall between, the executors, or be made frustrate by some little flaw in the conveyance — if it be no bigger than that some nimble attorney may put in his little finger, or but look through a narrow crack of it, be it no wider than the space of one word or one small letter. But this commonly happens with such legacies as extend no further than to temporal ends, such as bodily relief. Although I could wish men would see it done in their lifetime. But this, which concerns men’s souls, ought to be done now while we live. We need not distrust God’s providence, fearing we shall lack it ourselves before we die — no, we may rather expect a greater blessing from God even in this life. For as our Savior says: he who forsakes house or land for my sake and for the Gospel’s shall receive a hundredfold now in this life. Now the money we part with for such a purchase is for Christ’s sake and for the Gospel’s. But if you cannot come to see it performed in your lifetime, then consider upon what assurance you may best trust it to be done after your death. If I were either able or worthy to give advice in this matter, I should think that the legacy, so to be bestowed, were best put into the hands of some College in Cambridge or Oxford, and they both to lay out the money upon the purchase,
