---
reading: burton-simony
page: 13
pdf_page: 29
sortable_pagination_id: 29
---

be so plain as to need no further explication or reestablishment in the Gospel. “The tithe is the Lord’s,” says the Law. And does not the Gospel ratify the same, saying, “Give to God those things that are God’s”? Is this not an express precept? Indeed, Christ and his apostles, being busy in founding a new Church, suspended the practice of receiving tithes until the decrepit Synagogue of the Levitical Ordinance expired and its final obsequies were fully ended. But they left abundant evidence in their Gospels to establish the right of tithes to Christ’s ministers in the succeeding ages of the Church.

To conclude this point: that tithes and all church maintenance — call it what you will, benefit or benefice, profits or corporeal goods — are holy and of a spiritual nature, because they are consecrated to a holy use. I do not say that *res decimarum*, the things of which tithes consist, are in their own nature spiritual; but *qua decima* \[as tithes\], consecrated to a holy end and use, they take on a spiritual nature. For even as the bread in the Sacrament, before it is consecrated and sanctified by the word, is common — but after consecration it becomes sacramental and spiritual bread (which is that change the ancient Fathers so commonly speak of, not that bastard substantial change which the Pontificians would falsely father upon them) — in which respect the Apostle calls the manna and the water of the rock, in regard of their typological signification, “spiritual meat” and “spiritual drink”: so those things of which tithes and all church maintenance consist, in their own nature are temporal and common, but being dedicated to God for a holy use and end, they are no longer to be held temporal, but spiritual — I say, in regard of their spiritual end and use, for which they are consecrated. And what is the end and use of such consecrated things? Is it not for the maintenance of Christ’s ministers? And are not they, in their persons and their profession, by calling spiritual? And of what nature then can their maintenance be, but spiritual? For *omne nutritur a simili* \[everything is nourished by its like\]: spiritual
