---
reading: burton-simony
page: 132
pdf_page: 148
sortable_pagination_id: 148
---

Great Shepherd, gathered by his angels from the four winds: “Come, you blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you before the foundation of the world.” O blessed recompense! As you freely called the blessed ministers of Christ, inviting them to come to their ecclesiastical or Levitical inheritance here in the kingdom of God’s grace — prepared for them by God’s special appointment, and under God by your special care, as God’s feoffees in trust — so then on that day, *you who have been faithful in a little shall be made rulers over much, and shall enter into your Master’s joy*. What shall I say more? Your virtues have almost carried me away with you into that third heaven, where I also see other of your works following you and giving full testimony to what I have said. And here I have a new occasion to break forth into a second congratulation, where I must begin with you the worthy knights and gentlemen of the Lower House of Commons. For I hear that now of late you have by one unanimous vote, for your parts, passed a bill in your House that patrons also shall take the oath of simony in as large and ample a manner as the presentee does. Here let me also congratulate my own happiness, that my main petition and desire is granted before I could come to make it known to you. Blessed be God, who has put into your hearts this godly care. You have begun it, and it is already more than half done — nay, as good as altogether done. For you have commended it to the honorable lords, both spiritual
