---
reading: burton-simony
page: 133
pdf_page: 149
sortable_pagination_id: 149
---

both Spiritual and Temporal of the Upper House. And is it not then as good as done? For coming to the Temporal Lords, their pure un-simoned hands will easily subscribe; and doubt not then of the sacred hands of the Lords Spiritual — whom, if the matter labored under some difficulty, you would find like the *triarii* \[the veteran reserve troops of a Roman legion\], to restore all. And what is wanting then, but — which is never wanting to you, and to the Church of God — the King’s Royal Assent, which shall crown this noble Act. From the influence of whose Spirit (no doubt, next under God), as from a most careful Nursing Father of God’s Church, this motion first came to be inspired in you, as the will and affections receive their prime direction from the Sovereign Dictate of the intellectual Power. And to make this good, I think I see the very footsteps of his Majesty’s Spirit and genius leading you along upon the ground of reason and equity. For, with what reason and equity shall he who purchases \[a living\] be both punished in purse and pinched in conscience by taking the Oath, while he who sells shall enjoy his buyer’s monetary fine as a reward for his own equal, if not superior, sin, with his conscience called to no account for it? As if a law were made to punish him who is robbed, and not the thief; or to punish him who is oppressed by usury, and not the oppressor. If any Recusant, though he professes to be the King’s liege subject, yet refuses to take the Oath of Allegiance, who will swear for him that he is and will be a loyal subject?
