---
reading: burton-simony
page: 14
pdf_page: 30
sortable_pagination_id: 30
---

men and spiritual meat: both of a like nature, both alike consecrated to God. So then tithes or church livings, coming within the scope of the definition of simony — being not only annexed to spiritual things, but spiritual things themselves — it follows necessarily that to buy or sell such spiritual things is simony. The definition then of the Schoolmen and Canonists formerly cited stands firm and sound, having all the terms and parts of a perfect definition according to the rules of logic; which in brief may be reduced to a syllogism thus: *emptio vel venditio rei spiritualis est simonia; sed decimæ sunt res spirituales; ergo emptio vel venditio decimarum est simonia* \[the purchase or sale of a spiritual thing is simony; but tithes are spiritual things; therefore the purchase or sale of tithes is simony\]. *Emptio et venditio* \[purchase and sale\] is the genus; *simonia* is the species; and *res spiritualis* \[spiritual thing\] is the differentia. As *homo est animal rationale* \[a human being is a rational animal\] is a perfect definition, having the genus, species, and differentia. Therefore, according to the definition of simony, to buy or sell any spiritual thing is simony. In this respect Judas, in selling Christ, is said to commit simony: *non solum plagium commisit, quod liberum hominem; sed et simoniam, in eo quod rem sacram vendidit* \[he committed not only the crime of man-stealing, by selling a free man, but also simony, in selling a sacred or spiritual thing\].

### CHAP. V.

Other evasions or loopholes stopped. Objections answered.

But the simoniac has yet another usual loophole into which he creeps when pursued with the hue and cry of simony: he confesses indeed — because he cannot deny it — that tithes are perpetually consecrated and therefore spiritual, and that to buy or sell them is simony; but he says he is not buying the tithes, but either the glebe, or the temporalities annexed to his benefice or bishopric. Well, to answer this, we will not take the benefit and advantage of
