---
reading: burton-simony
page: 16
pdf_page: 32
sortable_pagination_id: 32
---

*constet Ecclesiasticus honor, mihi non constat. Nec quenquam arbitror φιλοδοξίαν seu φιλοτιμίαν præ se tantum laturum, ut dicas se honorem Ecclesiasticum emere. Si vero quod reliquum est Temporalium emat, viderit Emptor, ne quantum rem emptam pretium superat, tantum ipsum se honorem non neglexisse videatur. Nec quemquam existimo eo processurum audacia, ut dicat, tantundem esse, honorem Ecclesiasticum et civilem emere. Nihil addo amplius. Satis est quod hic noster mercator ex sua ipsius conscientia arguatur. Nec sibi cavere poterit, quin in istorum Scopulorum alterum, Directe, vel Indirecte, misere impingat.* \[I cannot say. Nor do I think anyone will put forward such love of glory or ambition as to say that he is buying ecclesiastical honor. But if he buys what remains of the temporalities, let the buyer take care lest, to the extent that the price exceeds the value of the thing purchased, he appear not to have neglected the honor. Nor do I think anyone will go so far in boldness as to say it is the same thing to buy ecclesiastical and civil honor. I add nothing more. It is enough that our merchant here is convicted by his own conscience. Nor will he be able to protect himself from wretched shipwreck on one or the other of these reefs, directly or indirectly.\] But let this suffice to have shown — both by evidence of Holy Scripture and by testimonies of ecclesiastical doctors and learned divines — that all buying and selling of any church preferments, on whatever pretext, is gross simony, however finely and artfully conveyed.

### CHAP. VI.

Simoniacs convicted by the universal voice of common fame.

If God’s Word were altogether silent in the law of tithes, leaving them as a thing indifferent to be paid or not according to men’s fancies and wills, and if the Scriptures consequently had no show of arguments to convict simoniacs, as we have heard: yet even the general voice of common fame — it seems to me — should be sufficient to cry down simony, and to present it in the Spiritual Court, or to procure a decree against it in the high Court of Conscience. And here before the bar of this impartial Court, let me by writ summon the simoniac to appear. You have bought some benefice or other ecclesiastical preferment in the Church, but have so managed and conveyed the matter that the world cannot witness how much you have given; yet you have given so much and in such a way that by some circumstance or other, general notice is taken of it — for such corruption
