---
reading: burton-simony
page: 17
pdf_page: 33
sortable_pagination_id: 33
---

corruption will soon cast abroad a savor) — whereupon a common fame is raised against you, that you are a simoniac. So that if you will be tried by God and the country, you are sure to be condemned as a simoniac. For *vox populi, vox Dei* — everyone says you are a simoniac; therefore you are one. Just as an intemperate or incontinent person in a parish: the one is commonly drunk, the other follows harlots; every boy in the street points at them — “There goes a drunkard,” “There goes a whoremonger.” But for all this, neither will the one confess himself a drunkard, because he keeps his feet, wallows not in the gutter, can use his tongue, and the like; nor will the other admit to being an adulterer, because he thanks God he meddles not with other men’s wives, but uses it only for recreation to meet with merry company — though in suspected places — to observe their fashions, and to learn to hate women rather than to love them. And if he enters into greater familiarity with them, it is but simple fornication at the worst, and (according to Roman Catholic doctrine) a venial sin, which his nature is now and then compelled to, for his health’s sake. Just so is our common simoniac. He has devoured pluralities of preferments like so many full cups; he has deflowered so many once-virgin churches, the patron perhaps — or some agent acting for him — serving as the procurer; so that everyone can point with a finger: “There goes one who paid so much for such a benefice, such a \[deanery\], such a \[bishopric\].” Yet for all this he will be no simoniac, because, forsooth, he has not bought the Holy Ghost; nor has he entered upon another’s living by way of lapse — as it were, another man’s wife — which some flaw in this wife, not fault in the incumbent, has brought into lapse, and so now free for anyone to sue out a divorce and marry her, though in so doing he commits adultery with her.

But you will say: it is one thing to be called \[a simoniac\], and another thing to be one. Though the ignorant common people call me so, it does not therefore follow that I am so. Things are to be measured not by report but by reason; and the common people can
