---
reading: burton-simony
page: 18
pdf_page: 34
sortable_pagination_id: 34
---

give no other reason for calling me a simoniac but only that Simon bought the gifts of the Holy Ghost, and I only buy the bodily commodities of the Church. Well, yet if there were no other consideration but this, how ought every minister especially to be careful of preserving the credit of his holy calling and profession. As Saint Jerome, writing *De vita Clericorum et Sacerdotum*, says: *Caueto omnes suspitiones, et quicquid probabiliter fingi potest, ne fingatur, ante deuita* — Avoid all suspicions, and whatever may be plausibly fabricated, prevent it first, that it may not be fabricated. For as every good Christian ought not only to abhor adultery and all unclean acts, but also to direct his conduct so as to preserve his good name from the least suspicion of looseness and dishonesty: so every good minister of Christ should so greatly detest the sin of Simon himself as to shun whatever has any resemblance or affinity to it. “Abstain,” says the Apostle, “from all appearance of evil.”

And if there were no other reason to ground common fame upon but this — that the trafficking in church livings is called simony, because Simon’s sin in offering to buy the gifts of the Holy Ghost is rightly called simony — it were proof enough. As Theopompus called a drunken murder *Cilicismus*, from the barbarous manners of the Cilicians, and lascivious lust *Canobismus*, from the filthy Canobites.

So Judas is called a devil, for being like one. Herod, a fox, for his cunning. The Church of Antichrist, a whore, for her whorish character. And many a man is called a simoniac for resembling Simon. As Augustinus ranks Simon and all ecclesiastical merchants in the same class together: *Simon erat de talibus, qui in Templum intrant ad emendum et vendendum* — Simon is one of those that enter into the Temple to buy and sell. (*In Ps.* 130.) And see what a resemblance there is between Simon and the simoniac. Simon would have bought the gifts of the Holy Ghost; this man buys the goods of the Holy Ghost, which are the gifts of God
