---
reading: burton-simony
page: 19
pdf_page: 35
sortable_pagination_id: 35
---

to his ministers. Simon offered money, not so much for the gift as for the gain; this man not only offers but gives his money — not perhaps for his ordination, not for that most careful cure of souls, not for that most watchful and weighty (*Angelorum humeris tremendum onus* \[a burden at which angels’ shoulders tremble\]) office of a bishop: I dare say — what then? If for neither of these, then to make himself the richer and more honorable in the world, and consequently the more capable of greater preferments — all probable conjecture being at a standstill. Do not blame then even the common people for calling you a simoniac after the name of Simon, whom you so closely resemble in your conduct, and which \[resemblance\] you have so dearly purchased with your money.

Again, those who have attained even a moderate grasp of the grounds of their Catechism (of whom there are enough to make up a common report) are able to reason thus against common simony. The Commandment says, “You shall not kill.” Is therefore only the act of murder forbidden here? Is not also the envious person, the slanderer, the hater of his brother, a murderer? “He that hates his brother is a manslayer.” The Commandment says, “You shall not commit adultery.” Is only the act forbidden? Is not also the affection? The lust? The look? “He that looks on a woman and lusts after her has committed adultery with her already in his heart.” Even so: you shall not commit simony. Is therefore only the buying and selling of the most properly so-called gifts and graces of the Holy Ghost so heinous as to deserve that odious name of simony? And shall not the buying and selling of church preferments — being also the Holy Ghost’s gifts, though of an inferior nature (that which Simon himself had most regard to when he offered his money) — deserve also the name of simony? And why should not the buying and selling of church livings be called simony, just as a lustful look is called adultery? For he that uses lustful looks and wanton gestures is not only an adulterer in his heart, but the likelier and nearer to commit it in the act. So he that will not scruple to buy a benefice — be it but an advowson,
