---
reading: burton-simony
page: 2
pdf_page: 18
sortable_pagination_id: 18
---

For the canonists, let Gratian speak, who says: *Simonia est studiosa cupiditas, vel voluntas emendi vel vendendi aliquid Spirituale* — simony is an intentional desire or purpose to buy or sell some spiritual thing. And in another place he adds: *Simonia est, emere vel vendere res Corporales Ecclesiae* — it is simony to buy or sell the corporeal goods of the Church. For the scholastics, let Thomas Aquinas speak, who came about one hundred years after Gratian; he says in effect the same: *Simonia est studiosa voluntas emendi vel vendendi aliquid Spirituale vel Spirituali annexum* — simony is an earnest desire of buying or selling any spiritual thing, or that which is annexed to what is spiritual. Upon these two definitions (in effect one) depends the whole law of simony, having the testimony of the whole Church from its primitive age to the present. Zanchius, using the very same definition, concludes: *Sic definierunt Theologi* — all divines and doctors have so defined it. And not without good reason: for in these two definitions is contained whatever may be said of simony, whether we regard its object or its subject — in the object, whether we understand the spiritual gifts or the corporeal goods of the Church; in the subject (I mean not the subject of predication, as logicians speak, but of inherence), whether we understand the affection only or also the action, be it actual or only intentional. All is simony. As Gratian also says: *Simonia committitur & circa ordinem, & circa Beneficium* — simony is committed both in respect of orders and in respect of the benefice itself. The Council of Constance has decreed the same, that simony is as well committed in the title as in the order. But hereto Gratian raises an objection: *Non videntur Spiritus Sancti donum emere, qui non pro consecratione, sed pro electione munera largiuntur: cum nullius spiritualis gratia aliquos faciat electio participes* — that is, they do not seem to be buying the gift of the Holy Ghost, who bestow their rewards not for the consecration but for the election, since election does not make anyone a partaker of any spiritual grace. But he adds the answer: *Sed sicut Ecclesiasticarum rerum emptores simoniaci iudicantur, quia Ecclesiasticis officijs ita adiuncti sunt, ut alterum sine alte-*
