---
reading: burton-simony
page: 20
pdf_page: 36
sortable_pagination_id: 36
---

an advowson, before he has taken any orders — is he not the likelier to buy his orders too, especially being some rustic pedant, so that he may enjoy his former bargain? For everyone who buys a preferment of this kind undoubtedly prizes it above the honor of his calling (for he that truly honors this holy calling is of that holy mind as to despise all base means of advancing himself in it), and consequently will make little conscience of buying holy orders, which he accounts but as accessories, having already made shipwreck of conscience in purchasing the profits, which he regards as the principal. And upon these reasons is grounded not only the common report of this our Church and of the present time, but of the whole Catholic Church from age to age. So that the very fame of it being so universal, if there were no other reason, one would think it should make any ordinary Christian both ashamed and afraid to set either his private opinion or practice against such a stream and cloud of witnesses.

### CHAP. VII.

Simony demonstrated by our positive laws and by ecclesiastical canons: and finally, by the conviction and confession of the simoniac himself.

Besides all the former convictions — yea, even without them all — the same laws which have appointed and imposed the oath against simony may serve as sufficient and competent judges in the case of simony. And it stands to good reason that the same law which forbids and punishes simony should be its own interpreter as to what it means by simony. And so, that is justly censured as simony which the law understands to be simony. Now the words of the statute showing what simony is are these: “And for the avoiding of simony and corruptions in presentations,
