---
reading: burton-simony
page: 21
pdf_page: 37
sortable_pagination_id: 37
---

tations, collations, and donations of and to benefices, dignities, prebends, and other livings and ecclesiastical promotions, and in admissions, institutions, and inductions to the same: Be it further enacted, etc. See here what our statutes call simony. And according to the interpretation of this statute, the oath takes effect. For upon this impregnable bulwark of positive law is mounted the cannon of the Church, fully charged upon simoniacs with powder and shot, to batter down this high-towering conceit of all those who stand out in defiance of all opposition and in defence of their ungodly merchandise. The charge of this cannon is heavier than lead and harder than iron, and so planted against the simoniac that he must of necessity receive it into his very mouth — I mean that most fearful oath of simony. But the simoniac’s motto is, *Iuravi lingua, mentem iniuratam gero* \[“I have sworn with my tongue, but keep my mind unsworn”\]: the oath may well touch the tip of his tongue, but it shall not come near his heart; he has some evasion, some reservation, or trick to elude the oath, either by giving it a false gloss, or by looking at the face of his conscience in a false glass — unless by way of commutation he declines it, as other offenders do the wearing of the white sheet; but no one, by commuting — call it what you will — is able to shift off his winding-sheet. Many may avoid the mouth of the cannon, but when it comes once to the riding of the cannon, that will be sure to pay its rider. For to bring it home to the conscience, let me borrow an example of a simoniacal bishop from Rome, of which that now step-mother Church is fruitful and may spare enough to serve as sea-marks for our better direction. Imagine you see him entering the chancel of Saint Peter’s in Rome, to receive his consecration in all his pontificals, standing in the midst of such a congregation as at the very least accounts itself most sacred. To this man let that dreadful and direful oath — which our Church has religiously provided as a wholesome remedy and preservative against this dangerous disease of simony — be administered. And before he takes it, let some powerful voice (such
