---
reading: burton-simony
page: 24
pdf_page: 40
sortable_pagination_id: 40
---

how unbecoming the gravity and modesty of a priest — yea, the candor of any honest man — by cap and knee, by soothing and flattery, by frequent visiting and long attendance at court, when I should have been at my sheepfold, have I at length attained to this reverend dignity. Nay more: though the world perhaps does not know it (as yet), my conscience fails not to charge me — what a sum of money I have paid and am yet to pay for it (which my kindred and friends may one day rue, if the lease of my momentary borrowed life be not all the longer) besides the fair and goodly livings I have parted with into the bargain. Yet if this were all, it would be more tolerable. But alas, here is an oath — a direful, a dreadful oath (alas!) — which I must take. I must; there is no evasion, no redemption, no avoiding it. I can no more escape it than a dead man his winding-sheet, and taking it upon me, it will be worse than Deianira’s enchanted shirt, sitting close to my conscience and tormenting it with the fire of hell. This will be worse to me than the riding of the cannon, for it will shake and shatter my soul and conscience all to pieces. How then should I take this fearful oath, and so sin against God, the Judge; sin against this sacred assembly, the grand jury passing upon me; sin against the Church; against my profession, which is sacred; against the dignity of a bishop, which is venerable; and lastly against my own soul, the subject of all this sin and the object of all those inevitable judgments of that just God hanging over my head? And what shall it advantage me to win a bishopric and lose my own soul? What advantage? Nay, what disadvantage will it bring to me? For what joy or enjoyment can I have in my bishopric, when my conscience shall be still dogging me at the heels — yea, biting me at the heart — and upbraiding me with simony and perjury? What honor shall the title of lord be to me, when my simony and perjury (too manifest to the world) shall make me a table-talk, a byword, a scornful parable in every man’s mouth, a contemptible object in every man’s eyes? The rochet, being an emblem of the pure linen righteousness and innocence of saints, so often as I shall put it on, what does it but put me in mind to apply that saying to myself — being one of those false apostles who transform myself
