---
reading: burton-simony
page: 25
pdf_page: 41
sortable_pagination_id: 41
---

into the Apostle of Christ, as Satan is transformed into an Angel of Light? And what benefit shall my bishopric be to me, being so dearly bought, that I must lay the burden of my simony upon my poor clergy, rack my rents, sell my presentations, keep a miserable house, and all, and more than all these, to patch up a poor bargain, and to heap more burdens upon my conscience, enduring more already than I am able to bear? Would it not be much better for me rather to forgo the bishopric and all, and to prevent all those matchless mischiefs that depend and attend upon the conditions of accepting it, than by going on to plunge my soul into infinite calamities, and wrap myself in endless and irremediable miseries? For that Oath, that Oath — O that fearful Oath — admitting no evasion, no mental reservation, no equivocation; that Oath, being once taken, becomes a great gulf set forever between my conscience and comfort, between my soul and salvation, between me and bliss. And what can I expect, but that my tongue, for being but an instrument in pronouncing this Oath, shall be tormented in a greater flame than that of poor Dives in hellfire? And then, and there, what shall it profit me to disclaim the name of simony, when I now suffer for it? or to say, I bought the benefit and dignity, not the office of a bishop, when now my false and foolish equivocation is found out? when my conscious agents, and all that confederate crew — the usurer, the scrivener, the solicitor, and the like — shall upbraid and accuse me for being an accessory, yea, a principal occasion of their sin? For had I not been so forward to give, they had not participated with me in my sin, and so not in my punishment; my own conscience never ceasing her hideous and hellish clamors upon me, tormenting me for my desperate perjury, for my deep hypocrisy, for playing the chop-church \[a buyer and seller of church livings\], which my punishment shall then tell me is either simony, or some other crime worse than it, if worse can be imagined.

Now shall not these considerations move such a man — yea, even a Romish simoniac — to a timely prevention of simoniacal perjury, or of becoming a perjured simoniac? And rather than desperately proceed to take the direful Oath, be content to remain stripped of all his other
