---
reading: burton-simony
page: 26
pdf_page: 42
sortable_pagination_id: 42
---

promotions, and bidding adieu to bishopric and all, go vow himself to a perpetual monastic life, there to do penance, if only for making such a bold attempt.

### CHAP. VIII.

Of the six evasions of the simoniac, whereby he thinks to elude the Oath.

But there is a new-found Well, which may well be called after that ancient river Orcus \[the underworld\] (yet far unlike that ancient Beersheba) — the Well of that Oath between Abraham and Abimelech — having six porches; which at a certain time, being stirred by an Angel called Legion, whatever diseased ecclesiastical person steps in first, and in place of washing, takes a draught of this Well (it springing from the river Styx, by which, as the poets feign, the gods drinking thereof were wont to swear), he passes forth at any of these ports or porches a whole and sound man. The moral is this: this Orcus is the Oath of Simony; the Angel called Legion is easily known by his name, what metal he is of; he that first steps in upon the Angel’s motion is the corrupt and diseased simoniac; this sick and ill-affected person taking a draught of this black Stygian water — the Oath of Simony — passes out at six porches, by six evasions of his own invention, perfectly cured (as he conceives) of two most desperate diseases: simony and perjury, and all other symptoms of the same. Now all these six porches tend to make a clear passage for one word in the Simoniacal Oath, wherein consists the whole power of the Oath.

First, therefore, they plead not guilty of simony, and so consequently not of perjury, because they buy only the temporalities \[the secular revenues of the see\]. This I touched before; but now I retort it upon themselves. They buy the temporal benefit — therefore it is simoniacal. For even Simon had a respect that way:
