---
reading: burton-simony
page: 27
pdf_page: 43
sortable_pagination_id: 43
---

way: *Mercari vult, quod pluris revendat* — “He would buy, to sell the dearer,” says Erasmus. So Augustine: *Emere volebat, quod vendere disponebat* — “He wished to buy what he intended to sell.” Calvin also confesses the same temporal regard to be simoniacal. For to imitate Simon in any such respect is sufficient to prove the act simoniacal.

Secondly, not simoniacal (say they) because they bargain not with the patron. Why? No more did Simon: for Peter was not the patron of the Holy Ghost, but God; Peter prayed, and God gave. But this shift is all one, as if the buyer should deny that he bought a merchant’s wares, because he dealt only with his factor, and therefore no lawful bargain. Your solicitor in your name and stead procures it of the patron; you pay your money to your solicitor. And will you swear your purchase had no relation to your patron? Though I could cut off all your arguments at one blow with Phocion’s axe — to wit, “Directly or Indirectly.”

Thirdly, not simoniacal (say they) because what they gave was but in respect of their solicitors’ pains employed therein. But is not his labor valued according to the preferment, as it is more or less worth? As clients fee their lawyers according to the value of their suit in hand — if so, is it not simoniacal? But attendants must live, either by their service or by suits. So it has been the custom of the Court of Rome, that simony should go under the name of a subsidiary or alms-pension, either for the Pope’s courtiers or coffers; but far be it from the Court of England. What befell Gehazi? Call simony a gratuity, or by whatever plausible name you will, yet it alters not its nature — no more than the calling and ranking Father Garnet among the saints and martyrs of the Church of Rome will alter him from a traitor, or the painting of him among the saints in heaven free him from the fire of hell. And does not such a gratuity or alms reflect upon the patron as an implicit compact of simony, when the patron in turn pleasures his servant and your solicitor with the collation
