---
reading: burton-simony
page: 28
pdf_page: 44
sortable_pagination_id: 44
---

of such a living, by means whereof he holds his servant well paid and recompensed for his service?

Fourthly, not simoniacal: for the preferment came not by purchase, but by wager, as it were casually, or by buying a horse, to pay for him so much on the day of marriage. But who does not see this horse to interfere between “Directly” and “Indirectly”? Who does not see that this merchant laid purposely to lose? But enough of such horse-play.

Fifthly, not simoniacal, since he had the favor to obtain under an implicit faith, without explicit or express conditions — to save his oath and honesty; *quippe qui non adeo sit plumbei tardique cerebri, ut foro uti nesciat* \[for he is not of so leaden and slow a wit as not to know how to work the courts\], and as we say, “Do reason.” *Verbum enim sapienti* \[a word to the wise\]. O, for a Phocion, refusing Alexander’s presents (though sent him because he was an honest man) and saying, *εἰάσατω με τοῦτον* — “Let him suffer me to be an honest man still.” *Pauper Fabricius quartam a Pyrrho regni partem sibi oblatam recusavit, ne fidem suam Romanam temeraret* — “Poor Fabricius refused the fourth part of Pyrrhus’s kingdom offered him, lest he should dishonor his Roman fidelity.” But this Roman fidelity was in *diebus illis* \[those days\], when Rome was heathen. And Damianus says, *Simoniaci sunt, non solum qui paciscuntur, sed etiam qui pecuniam non pactam postulant: more Gibezi* — “Simoniacs are they, not only who bargain, but also who require money not of compact, after the manner of Gehazi.” For the condition, be it implicit or explicit, simoniacal it is, directly or indirectly. Yea, this is met with in the conclusion of the Oath, which forbids one to perform any contract made by another, though without your knowledge — how much more should a man renounce all purpose to perform an implicit contract or condition, which his own heart is conscious of and privy to?

Sixthly, not simoniacal, because this was obtained before it fell, as it were in the nature of an advowson, by promise — which differs from an advowson only as a word of mouth differs from writing. And an advowson is no simony. For answer: first, promise and advowson in common estimate and practice differ much; for promise is ex-
