---
reading: burton-simony
page: 31
pdf_page: 47
sortable_pagination_id: 47
---

red earth, which all Edomites hunger after so greatly. *Auri sacra fames!* \[Accursed hunger for gold!\] There was indeed a time once when our great Jacob \[King James I\] made a noble and gracious offer to the Church, to have redeemed her patrimony at easy and honorable conditions, if she would — which would have been a most happy purchase.

Another simoniacal seller was Gehazi, by some taken for the first simoniac in the Old Testament. *Gehezi primo in veteri Testamento Simoniam invenit* \[Gehazi was the first to devise simony in the Old Testament\]. Hence all such sellers were accustomed to be called Gehazites, as buyers were called simoniacs. But Simon has obtained to bear the bell, and carries the name away for both; since the money so given and taken becomes sin-money, bearing the image and superscription of Simon. Sin cleaves as closely between these two — the buyer and the seller — as a nail between the joints of stones. And as Chrysostom says: *Qui emit & vendit, sine periurio esse non potest* \[He that buys and sells cannot be without perjury\]. Which might well be applied indifferently to both the merchant and the chapman in simony, if they both indifferently took the oath. Therefore our Lord whipped all out of the Temple, sellers as well as buyers; which Gregory, applying to simony, says: *Columbas vendere, est de Spiritu Sancto commodum temporale percipere* \[To sell doves is to reap a temporal benefit from the Holy Ghost\]. Sellers therefore are as deep in simony as buyers.

It is the common error of many patrons to account the benefices within their presentative power as their goods and chattels, as a part and parcel of their patrimony — whether devolved upon them by inheritance or purchased with their money — whereupon they resolve that, being their own, they may do with them as they please: *Vendere sure potest, emerat ille prius* \[He may surely sell what he himself first bought\]. Hence it is that so many hunt after the purchase of patronages, as being in their estimation none of the worst markets. But herein such men miserably misjudge the matter — at least if all is true that the canonists and schoolmen, yea and the ancient fathers, have delivered touching these
