---
reading: burton-simony
page: 35
pdf_page: 51
sortable_pagination_id: 51
---

The right of patronage, they say, may not be sold. Why? Not only in regard of the nature and condition of such dedicated things, which are spiritual and therefore an improper subject for sale, but also in regard of the necessary effects and inconveniences that must inevitably follow from such a sale. For grant that it is lawful to sell a patronage: it then follows that it will be equally lawful to sell a presentation, and then an advowson. And then I would fain know why it should not be equally lawful to sell the benefice when it falls vacant. But because men raise little question about the lawfulness of selling, either during a vacancy or still less before it, let us consider the lawfulness or unlawfulness of buying. To buy an advowson passes current as lawful; and yet to buy the vacancy \[i.e., to purchase the right to fill a benefice while it is vacant\] is judged simony both by our statute laws and by the canons of the Church. Well, I thus reason and conclude: if it is simoniacal to buy a benefice when it is vacant, why should it not be equally simoniacal to buy the advowson? and so with the presentation? and so with the patronage? Or if it is lawful to buy the advowson, why should it not be equally lawful to buy the benefice outright? Indeed, of the two, I should think it rather more lawful to buy during the vacancy than before it. For it seems an injurious thing — as much as to take over another man’s lease — to take another man’s living over his head; and it is unlawful to contract for another man’s wife before her husband is dead. But there is an infallible rule: *Quod est secundum se malum ex genere, nullo modo potest esse bonum et licitum*. This is Aquinas’s dictum, which he applies to disprove the lawfulness of lying for any end: that which is evil in its own nature and kind can by no means be good and lawful; or, that which is substantially evil cannot be made good by any circumstance. To buy things of a spiritual nature is naturally evil, as was said before: any act is naturally evil when it falls upon an unsuitable subject. If therefore it is evil to buy a benefice in the vacancy, then it is evil to buy the same whether in the advowson, or in the presentation, or in the patronage. And if it is evil
