---
reading: burton-simony
page: 36
pdf_page: 52
sortable_pagination_id: 52
---

to buy, then by the law of correlation it is evil to sell in all these respects. And if the buyer is simoniacal, the seller must be so too. Again, as it is unlawful to buy and sell in this way in regard to the nature of such things as being spiritual, so also in regard of the common effects and fruits of such trafficking. For tell me: when you buy an advowson or patronage of an ecclesiastical living, to what end? To bestow it freely and faithfully upon some worthy and able minister, for the good of God’s Church, without any temporal consideration? It were to be wished that this were your purpose. But do you not intend to profit by such a bargain — either by placing some of your own kin, or by selling it during the vacancy to whoever will be your best customer? Is this not the general practice? Nor do I hereby condemn our law for allowing such things as advowsons and patronages to be bought and sold, seeing it also disallows simoniacal dealings, or those conducted by \[self-interested\] considerations — which being removed, either few or none would deal in such merchandise, or else they would not so justly incur the censure of simony as so commonly they do.

Yet here I draw a distinction between the purchase of an advowson and of the entire patronage. And again, I draw a distinction between the purchase of a patronage by a private individual and by a college at the university. For the purchase of a single advowson does too commonly aim at some temporal or carnal respect or advantage; whereas some may perhaps purchase a perpetual patronage to leave it as an honor to his house and posterity, while he and his heirs, according to his intention and will, become instruments of God’s glory in the judicious and generous bestowing of the benefice freely and without condition at every vacancy. But this being very rare, although I neither deny nor begrudge the right of patronage residing in private persons, so it be rightly used — yet I confess I could wish (for the avoiding of that general corruption and abuse in the collation of benefices) that the colleges of each university were possessed of as many patronages in this land as possibly
