---
reading: burton-simony
page: 37
pdf_page: 53
sortable_pagination_id: 53
---

possibly they could procure or purchase, redeeming them out of many hucksters’ hands — which would be an excellent means to increase learned divines, to repress simoniacal pedants, to refresh the colleges by continual interchange of students, to provide for many able men to be exercised in the Church, whose gifts, for want of such means, often lie buried in a college life. Yet I do not deny that corruption may sometimes creep in at the college gates; but the strict laws of colleges, well executed, may, like a careful porter, either whip it out or keep it out. This would be (in my opinion) the likeliest way to prevent simony and to provide a good ministry. And some colleges (I know) are careful in this regard, both in Cambridge and Oxford, whose example I could wish all the rest would be as careful to follow. But enough of purchasing.

### Chapter X.

### Of the sundry ways and wiles of committing simony.

As all simoniacs are either buyers or sellers: so, from these we may observe the sundry sorts of simoniacal contracts. For simony has grown such a trade, in which so many great merchants traffic, that it may claim as good a charter for a hall to make it a corporation or society in the Church as the Worshipful Company of Cutpurses is said to usurp in the City. Many, well advanced in the trade, openly professing that were it not for the oath, they hold it as lawful to buy a benefice as a horse in Smithfield. But let us see this pedlar’s pack opened.

The most beaten highway of simoniacs is by silver cross — money, or money’s worth, at two or three years’ purchase, or by reservation of some tithes, whether by express contract, or by long concealment, or by strong hand. Whereupon Aquinas says: *Si Patronus*, etc. If the patron requires
