---
reading: burton-simony
page: 38
pdf_page: 54
sortable_pagination_id: 54
---

of him on whom he confers the benefice any of the fruits thereof, it is the same as if he exacted some bribe; and this is simoniacal. Sometimes he deals by his factor, or gives such a benefice to his servant as a reward and salary for his service, to make the best market of it. To this purpose the said author says: *Si aliquis*, etc. If any person gives an ecclesiastical benefice to someone with the condition or intention that thereby he may provide for his kindred, it is manifest simony — as for a patron to bestow his benefice upon his kinsman for kinship’s sake is simony. *Nam potest*, etc. For there may be simony in the intention, if not the worthiness of the person but human favor be respected; says Aquinas. So many parents buy a presentation or advowson, that in time to come it may fall to be a portion for one of their children, whether he prove fit or unfit, good or bad, scholar or man, at all adventure. *Quanquam*, etc. Though according to the decrees of ancient canons, children who through the covetousness of their parents have obtained churches by money are bound to relinquish them again — yea, and to lose their money too. *Pecunia tua*, etc. Your money perish with you; as Aquinas also says: *Simoniacus nullum ius habet, pecuniam suam turpiter collatam iniuste detentam, repetendi*: A simoniac has no right to plead the restitution of his money corruptly disbursed and unjustly detained.

Some other pedant will needs ride at a gallop to the devil, by buying a horse from the patron, and so he will come as freely by the benefice as he who was invited at free cost to a fat goose, paying only for the sauce. Others, *vili obsequio aut corporali servitio simoniam perpetrant* — commit simony by base service or bodily attendance, which is not the cheapest rate. *Manifestum est autem, quod obsequium hominis ad aliquam utilitatem ordinatur qua potest precio pecunia estimari* — It is manifest that the service of a man is directed toward some benefit that can be valued at a money price. Ecclesiastical doctors set out three kinds of simony: first, *manuum* \[of the hand\]; secondly, *obsequii* \[of service\]; thirdly, *linguae* \[of the tongue\] — that of the hand they account inferior to the other two. Damianus says: *Oportet Pontificem esse boni operis sectatorem. Nam bonum opus desiderat. Excute manus ab omni dono. At nunc excutit, sed implicasse convincitur, qui nanciscende dignitatis ambitu; Potestatum sublimium castra sectant. Nam dum* — A bishop ought to be a follower of good works. For good works he desires. Shake your hands free of every gift. But now he shakes them free, yet is proved to have been entangled, when in pursuit of dignity to be obtained he haunts the courts of the highest powers. For while
