---
reading: burton-simony
page: 39
pdf_page: 55
sortable_pagination_id: 55
---

while no small sum is lavished on the acquisition of carriages, the furnishing of lodgings, and various other expenses, this man is without doubt found liable to have given money. And there is likewise no doubt that he renders service to the one at whose court he sweats under such a heavy burden of toil and travel. Finally, while he strives to flatter his lord and conform to his will in all things, he often panders to him with certain fawning favors. Moreover, whoever, in the giving or receiving of ecclesiastical dignities, is corrupted by even one only of the plagues aforesaid — namely, of hand, of service, or of tongue — is adjudged guilty of the crime of the simoniacal heresy. Yet they boast and glory that they are innocent, because they have covenanted to pay no sum of talent for the assumption of honors. But tell me, O cleric, whoever you are: if, having redeemed any golden vessel or estate, the dealer required that, in lieu of its price retained by you, you should render him a return of such diligence, would you not afterward steadfastly assert that you had obtained what was received at a just price? Not because you paid money, but because you rendered service. For you would say — and perhaps not too shamelessly — that you bought it more dearly when you wearied yourself with such great labor, when you so often expended the resources of your means, than if you had once counted out money of a fixed amount. By no means, therefore, should they promise themselves innocence, or be confident they are clean from the stains of simoniacal heresy, who, though they do not weigh out gleaming metal, yet pay a price for the assumption of honors through a kind of talent of subjection and service. And in his third epistle of the same book he adduces a strange example of a curial bishop of Bologna, who, having obtained much preferment by his courtly obsequiousness, straightway fell dumb and for seven years’ space — so long as he lived — continued a paralytic and speechless. A fearful example, yet nowadays not found so rare, especially in Transmarine courts such as the Court of Rome, where preferments and prelacies purchased by obsequiousness, or otherwise by indirect means, deprive the parties promoted of the right use of their tongue in the prime execution of their episcopal function.

But far be it from anyone to reproach worthy scholars and preachers
