---
reading: burton-simony
page: 4
pdf_page: 20
sortable_pagination_id: 20
---

which charge, being received by canonical and orderly calling, is a gift no less ascribed to the Holy Ghost than that other of ordination. So the Apostle expresses in his charge to the clergy of Ephesus (Acts 20:28): “Take heed to yourselves and to the whole flock of God, whereof the Holy Ghost has made you *episcopos*, or overseers.” See here — to be an overseer, whether *episcopus* by a mark of excellence as the superior overseer or superintendent over all particular flocks and pastors in his peculiar diocese, or else every inferior and subordinate minister in his several parish, placed as an overseer or watchman over his flock, as Lyra also understands — this is the gift of the Holy Ghost. Now then, to buy this gift — to be made a bishop over such a see, or a pastor or rector of such a flock — does it not accord precisely with this definition of simony? For simony is a trafficking in the gifts of the Holy Ghost; but such an overseership is a gift of the Holy Ghost; therefore to buy this gift is simony.

### CHAP. II.

Wherein the former definitions are cleared from certain objections and subtle distinctions.

But in answer to our former argument, the sophistical simoniac, or simoniacal sophist, distinguishes *inter Beneficium & beneficium* — between the benefice and the benefit — or more precisely: *Beneficium emit, non officium* — he buys the profit, not the office; *Non Curam, Sed curam* — not the cure of others’ souls, but the care and provision for his own body. Paschal answers this objection: *Si quis obiecerit non consecrationes emi, Sed res que ex consecratione proueniunt, penitus desipere probatur; Nam cum corporalis Ecclesia, aut Episcopus, &c.* — if anyone shall object that he buys not the consecrations but those things which follow and attend the consecration, he is a manifest dotard. For seeing that a body
