---
reading: burton-simony
page: 47
pdf_page: 63
sortable_pagination_id: 63
---

stery of this iniquity and sound all its depths.

As for impropriations, though they were originally major branches of the Levitical stock, and the merchandising of them might accordingly claim kinship with simony — yet because these are slips broken off and transplanted out of the garden and paradise of God, the learned treatise of that godly Scottish knight Sir James Semple, as also that other of Sir Henry Spelman, an English knight, both of the lay tribe, two noble and weighty witnesses, does more justly lay claim to this argument. Only, I would to God that these two worthy treatises were thoroughly studied and conscientiously applied, and printed in the hearts and consciences of all impropriators to their eternal salvation — by being conscientiously persuaded to shake their hands free of such sacred things, restoring them to Christ the only true Proprietor, the wronging of whom in this kind will one day prove fearful sacrilege, whatever men may think of it now.

### Chap. XI. Of the highest degree of simony, committed in ordination.

Concerning simony committed in ordination: although perhaps the money given for a simple ordination is but small (unless it be for some egregious dunce, to which, as Solomon says of a dull-edged instrument, a man must apply the more force — and, as it were, the more weight to the lighter scale) — yet of all other kinds of simony, this is the most pernicious and damnable. Indeed, the less a man gives or receives in this respect, it is an argument of the less esteem he makes of so holy and excellent a calling. As the Lord says concerning Judas’s selling of Christ for thirty pieces of silver: “A goodly price at which I was prized by them”
