---
reading: burton-simony
page: 49
pdf_page: 65
sortable_pagination_id: 65
---

saving where whole pages are expurgated, too long here to be inserted. In the first place, those verses from Mantuan are to be cast out:

*Si quid Roma dabit, nugas dabit, accipit aurum,*
*Verba dat, heu Rome nunc sola pecunia regnat.*
*Hoc est Roma viris, avibus quod noctua.*

If Rome gives anything, it gives trifles; gold she takes, gives words — at Rome (alas) now money alone rules the market. Rome is to men what the owl is to the birds.

Where also other most beastly matter, such as my author says breeds horror in the very mention — all contained in the Roman *Taxa Camera* \[the official tariff of the Roman Chancery\], where all sorts of most horrible sins are dispensed with at such a rate: Presbytericide, or priest-killing; Parricide; Matricide, or the killing of one’s parents, even willingly; also simony, as deserving to be ranked among such sins — all of which, and much more, are not only dispensed with for so much money, but the offenders are made capable of any honor or preferment in the Church. All that rabble must be expurgated from the author; notwithstanding the *Taxa Camera* remains still in force, and none of all these things reformed — as the author says, which must also be expurgated: *Adeo Romanam Curiam repurgare sibi non permisit*, etc. — no reformation will be endured. Again, these verses must come out — so famous in many authors:

*Vivere qui capitis sancte, discedite Rome:*
*Omnia cum liceat, non licet esse bonum.*

All you who would live holy, hence from Rome: where all things else, but goodness, find a room.

And these also, cited by my author, must come out:

*Quisquis opes sacras nummo reperire profano*
*Querit, eat Romam, sacra sunt venalia Rome.*

Whoever seeks sacred wealth with unhallowed gold: let him go to Rome, where sacred things are sold.

And
