---
reading: burton-simony
page: 5
pdf_page: 21
sortable_pagination_id: 21
---

The body of a church, or a bishop, or such, cannot subsist or be maintained without material things, any more than the soul can live corporally without the body; and therefore whoever sells the one, without which the other cannot stand alone, leaves neither unsold. Whereupon Gratian says, *Quando quis promouendus est ad Ecclesiam vel ordinem, fructus proueniunt iure ordinis; & ideo non licite emit* \[When a man is to be promoted to a church or bishopric, or to its order and office, the revenues follow by right of order, and therefore the purchase is not lawful\]. Both Paschal’s comparison and Gratian’s reasoning are apt and sound. For there is such a mutual and immediate relation — indeed combination and union — between the ministry and its maintenance that one cannot subsist without the support of the other, any more than the soul can exercise its various faculties (especially those sensitive functions) without the instrument of the body, or the body can perform its duty without its ordinary nourishment. And as Boaz tendered to his kinsman the purchase of Elimelech’s lands, which at first offer the man was willing to buy, but told him withal that he must purchase them from Naomi by marrying Ruth — both must go together — so he who will buy the lands or inheritance of the church and of the ministry must reckon on buying Ruth with it. The maintenance and the compassionate \[*ruthful*\], careful office of the ministry go hand in hand together; buy the one, and you buy the other too. Therefore anciently ordination customarily carried the title with it, as the Council of Chalcedon, canon 6, shows. So that he who would buy the maintenance must buy also the ordinance. And is not the maintenance of the ministry, as much as its ordinance, a gift of the Holy Spirit? Does not the Lord say, “I have given the tithes to the Levites”? And are not these tithes holy? And who can give a holy gift, or make a gift holy, but the Holy Spirit? From this I draw the following conclusion: simony is the desire or act of buying or selling the gifts of the Holy Spirit; but tithes — holy tithes — are a gift of the Holy Spirit; therefore the desire or act of buying or selling holy tithes (by which I understand all church revenues) is simony.
