---
reading: burton-simony
page: 50
pdf_page: 66
sortable_pagination_id: 66
---

And this which follows: *Et cum alia vendant alij* — and whereas others sell other things:

*Et cum alia vendant alii,*
*Templa, Sacerdotes, Altaria, Sacra, Corona,*
*Ignes, Thura, Preces, Caelum est venale, Deusque.*

We \[at Rome\] sell temples, priests, altars, sacrifices, crowns, fires, incense, prayers — heaven itself is for sale, and God.

But it is labor in vain for Rome to go about thus to purge from men’s writings the memory of her inbred corruptions — out of which source, whatever simony is now found in any part of the Church has issued. Enough to stigmatize and brand this sin with the greater mark of infamy, if it should be found as well in Judah, where religion is maintained in her integrity, as in that idolatrous, revolted Israel, where that grand Jeroboam of Rome, for base bribes, admits into the priesthood the basest of the people.

I do not love to be a fingernail in this ulcer \[i.e., to scratch at the wound\]; yet being to speak of this sin as it is committed in the highest degree — to wit, in ordination — leaving it to Ham to divulge his own father’s nakedness, if any such nakedness there be, it shall suffice to do herein as Lycurgus of old: who, to deter the Lacedaemonian lads from that more than beastly vice of drunkenness, caused their drunken slaves to be made a spectacle to them, by whose example they might take the deeper impression of dislike and hatred against that sin. So let us take, though a brief, view of the Church of Rome’s sin in this kind — omitting particular instances and contenting ourselves with generalities, their good laws being occasioned by their evil manners.

Pope Leo says: *Gratia si non gratis datur, vel accipitur, gratia non est. Simoniaci autem non gratis accipiunt. Quid ergo dant? Profecto quod habent. Quid habent? Spiritum utique mendacii. Quomodo hoc probamus? Quia si spiritus veritatis (testante ipsa veritate, de qua procedit) gratis accipitur: procul dubio spiritus mendacii esse convincitur; qui non gratis accipitur, vel datur.* — If grace (says he, speaking of the grace conferred by imposition of hands in ordination) be not gi-
