---
reading: burton-simony
page: 56
pdf_page: 72
sortable_pagination_id: 72
---

the incense of any such sacrifice with scorn and deep disdain. Or at the port of Taste? It cannot relish such *γλυκοπικρά* \[bittersweets\], sweet in the mouth yet bitter in the belly, which the stomach of Conscience can never digest or be done with. As the Apostle said concerning the incest committed by one among the Corinthians, that they had altogether proved themselves clear in that business: so, can any man say that the Church of England is altogether free from this kind of simony? How many may say truthfully what Saul said only in pretense, “I have kept the Lord’s Commandment,” in this point. But some will say, as Samuel said, “What means then the bleating of the sheep and the lowing of the oxen which I hear?” There goes a rumor of I know not what. Some false report. How? Simony committed in giving and taking holy Orders? Far be it. In France indeed, our neighboring nation — but the sea lies between us, enough to drown such simony and never suffer it to reach us. When Saint Ambrose spoke of this sin, saying of a simoniacal bishop: *Ab Archiepiscopo sum nuper Episcopus ordinatus, centumque ei solidos dedi, ut Episcopalem gratiam consequi meruissem; quos si minime dedissem, hodie Episcopus non essem; unde mihi melius est aurum de saccello subtrahere, quam tantum Sacerdotium perdere; aurum dedi, & Episcopum comparavi; quos tamen solidos si vivo, recepturum me illico non diffido; Ordino Presbyteros, consecro Diaconos, & accipio aurum: nam de aliis nihilominus Ordinibus pecunia quaestum profligare confido, &c.* \[“I was recently ordained a bishop by the Archbishop, and I gave him a hundred solidi that I might merit to obtain episcopal grace; for had I not given them, I would not be a bishop today; wherefore it is better for me to subtract gold from my purse than to lose so great a priesthood; I gave gold and bought my bishopric; yet if I live, I am confident I will shortly recover those solidi; I ordain priests, I consecrate deacons, and I receive gold; for in the other Orders likewise I am confident of turning a profit from money”\] — does any man think that this holy man ever meant or thought of any such simoniacal bishop beyond any stretch of sea from Milan? — much less,

*That the Britons, utterly cut off from all the world,*
*so great a simony should convict?*

Far be Saint Ambrose’s example from England, as we are distant from Milan, where he was then bishop. I trust — nay, I dare say — that there is no bishop in England, however modest his means, who counts ordination fees among his revenues. Far be it. Indeed, far be those who dream of such things. We disdain
