---
reading: burton-simony
page: 57
pdf_page: 73
sortable_pagination_id: 73
---

to stoop to any such lure or base lucre. Let no man take us for such crude practitioners that, while we teach others the way to heaven with our tongues, we should commit such a solecism as to point to the earth with our hand. Or \[take us for\] such shallow divines that, as if we had never been trained up in university studies, we should make such a gloss upon the holy text — “Let not your left hand know what your right hand does” — that a man may therefore practice piety with one hand and simony with the other. But if there should chance to be any who dare sell the Holy Ghost, as there was even among the twelve one Judas who did sell his Lord and Master Christ: what then? What success had Judas? After restitution, suspension. Ecclesiastical suspension would be too good for such. When Esau had sold his birthright, in which the priesthood was included, he was so desperately cut off from the blessing that he found no place for repentance to obtain so much as one blessing, though he sought it with tears: “Have you not one blessing, my father?” Not one. The blessing remained with Jacob, to whom God had promised and given it with the priesthood. Yet profane Esau lived and enjoyed the fatness of the earth and the dew of heaven. True. But how? He must live by his bow, by killing and destroying — the very life of simoniacal ordainers and the ordained: like the thief who, climbing up into the sheepfold by another way, comes not but to steal, to kill, and to destroy. While Jacob — he who is called by God to the priesthood and to be a shepherd — keeps and feeds the flock but kills none; insomuch that Laban missed none of all his sheep while they were in Jacob’s keeping. Gehazi, for his after-the-fact selling, purchased Naaman’s leprosy for himself and his posterity forever. All selling ordainers are Gehazites, and therefore lepers, and thus shut out by God’s law from his holy congregation — even the communion of saints — as unhallowed and unclean persons. Simon’s doom was: “Your money perish with you; you have no part nor lot in this business; your heart is not right; you are in the gall of bitterness and in the bond of iniquity.” Here is a hard choice
