---
reading: burton-simony
page: 58
pdf_page: 74
sortable_pagination_id: 74
---

of a choice for all simoniacs, especially simoniacal ordainers who sell — *quantum in se est, Spiritus Sancti, quod certe nihil est* \[insofar as it is in their power, the Holy Spirit, which is certainly nothing \[that can be sold\]\] — the Holy Ghost. They may choose whether they will have Esau’s curse, or Naaman’s leprosy, or Judas’s suspension, or Simon’s perdition — or rather all of these together, since such simoniacs are of Edom’s line, Gehazi’s posterity, successors of Judas, and Simon’s own sons. But how can so fair a body, of so sound a constitution as is this noble Church of England, ever hatch or harbour *tales vomicas*, such festering abscesses, and not vomit them out of her mouth? It is impossible that such weeds should grow in this garden, the very paradise of God. But if they should, may the Lord root them out, and ever preserve this his Eden with the flaming sword of the fiery cherubim, so that no simoniacal ordainer or ordained may dare to set his filthy foot on this holy ground, or thrust in his foul hand to take of the tree of life — to purchase for himself that power of Christ of which he said to his disciples, “Freely you have received, freely give.” I will conclude with that of Cyprian: *Dominus Gibezi mercenarium lepra condemnat, & Ieroboam vendentem Sacerdotia cum Apostatis locat. Hic Simonem gratia Dei nundinatorem a Sanctorum consortio exhaeredat, cuius detestabiles ausus ultrix ruina confundit & quassat. Hic Balaam ad maledicendum conducto silentium imponit; & per Asinam redargutum, colliso ad parietem pede vacuum pecunia, oneratum contumelia, claudicantem ad propria remisit confusum.* \[The Lord condemns mercenary Gehazi with leprosy, and ranks Jeroboam, who sold the priesthood, with apostates. He disinherits Simon from the communion of saints for trafficking in the grace of God, whose detestable audacities a vengeful ruin confounds and shatters. He imposes silence upon Balaam who was hired to curse, and, having been reproved by his ass, his foot dashed against the wall, sent him back confounded, empty of money, laden with infamy, and limping home.\]
