---
reading: burton-simony
page: 59
pdf_page: 75
sortable_pagination_id: 75
---

### Chapter XII.

### Reasons showing the unreasonableness of simony. Objections answered.

As every sin is in its own nature unreasonable, being repugnant even to the dictate of natural reason, so *simony*, for this reason, may claim a place and rank among other sins.

First, *simony* is unreasonable because it is sacrilege — it robs God of his right. “Will a man rob his gods?” To usurp upon tithes by buying and selling (for buying and selling tithes is a usurpation upon tithes) is to rob God. For to buy from the patron is to subscribe that the right of tithes is vested in him and not in God, and so to ascribe the power and property of tithes to the patron who sells them, not to God, who gave them, still retaining the ownership of them in himself. Whence we may conclude all those to be either simoniacs or favorers of them who deny tithes to be due *iure divino* \[by divine right\]. For why do they deny this, but flattering themselves that thus they may the more licentiously buy and sell them, and so hold the poor ministers’ nose to the grindstone — whereas even if tithes had been dedicated only by man, yet they ought not to be so profaned.

Secondly, *simony* is unreasonable because it debases and vilifies that which is honorable, as is the gift of God. And tithes are the gift of God, and therefore to be held in honor. Peter said to Simon, “Your money perish with you, because you think the gift of God may be obtained with money.” He vilified God’s gift, and therefore he was held in contempt by the apostle. Wherefore, and what was Belshazzar’s punishment? He set light by the holy vessels of God’s temple when profanely he presumed to drink from them — he and his concubines. And was he not well requited, when, while he was drinking, he saw that handwriting upon the wall: “You are weighed in the balance and found
