---
reading: burton-simony
page: 6
pdf_page: 22
sortable_pagination_id: 22
---

So the simoniac’s earlier distinction serves only to distinguish between sound reason and his own foolish imagination, which are utterly incompatible and must inevitably make him, *ut cum ratione insaniat* \[rave with a show of reason\]. And truly I very easily believe that he speaks as he thinks. For few such merchants would be at that cost to purchase such a cure were it not for the profit — as Chrysostom says, “I suppose no man, however thirsty for glory, would ever be made a bishop unless necessity called him to it; for who is sufficient for these things?” And Cardinal Pole, being charged by a cardinal of the opposing faction with ambition in too eagerly seeking the papacy, answered that he did not think the burden of that great office so light, but that he was of the mind it was rather to be feared than desired. But later times are so fertile, producing such sky-soaring spirits, that now who is not sufficient for these things? And what reason has any man of reason to think that these sufficient men should have such leaden heads as ever to condescend to reach out their golden hands in order to purchase and pull upon themselves the burden of such a cure? No more than one would think that such men would ever be content (were it possible) to become joint-purchasers with Christ, whose bishopric cost him the shedding of his most precious blood — nor ever imitate Saint Paul’s example (Philippians 2:17) or obey Saint John’s precept (1 John 3:16).

### CHAP. III.

Wherein other shifts and evasions are met with.

But what has become of my simoniac? I thought I had caught him fast even now with my syllogism. But *Quo teneam vultum mutantem Protea nodo?* \[With what knot shall I hold Proteus, who changes his shape?\] How shall I hold this shifting Proteus? With what cords or withies shall I bind this Samson-like Simon! He buys, he does not buy; it is a benefice, it is not a
