---
reading: burton-simony
page: 63
pdf_page: 79
sortable_pagination_id: 79
---

holy things is death; your money perish with you. If simony is unlawful, and so condemned by all; if it is a sin, do not commit it — no, not even if you could thereby procure the safety of the whole Church of God. For men to say “Let us do evil, that good may come” — their damnation is just. Shall I destroy my own soul (for every sin slays the soul) in order to save the souls of others? Indeed, says Job: “Will you speak wickedly for God’s defense, and talk deceitfully for his cause?” Whereupon Mercerus notes, saying: *Deus hac vestra Defensione non indiget, neque ita se defendi postulat cum alterius Detrimento, ut interim proximo fiat Iniuria* \[God does not need this defense of yours, nor does he require to be defended at another’s loss, in such a way that injury is meanwhile done to one’s neighbor\]. If God then will not have his cause defended to any man’s wrong, neither will he have his Church saved by any man’s destruction. It is against the order of charity to lose my own soul for the saving of others. Let such a man rather resolve thus: if God will have me help to preserve his Church, he will offer lawful means for me to attain this charge. Indeed, in such a case the means for us to use is: pray the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth laborers into his harvest.

And whereas a man may pretend — and indeed promise himself — that if he were promoted to such a position he would become a profitable member in the Church: let such a one examine himself by what Gregorius says: Perhaps (says he) he who desires prelacy in the Church has a purpose to do good. *Sed cum percepti Principatus officio perfrui feculariter coepit, libenter obliuiscitur, quicquid religiose cogitauit. Quia nequaquam valet in culmine humilitatem discere, qui in imis positus non desinit superbire. Nam plerunque in occupatione regiminis, ipse quoque boni operis vsus perditur, qui in tranquillitate tenebatur: quia quieto mari recte nauem & imperitus se nauta dirigit: turbato autem tempestatis fluctibus, etiam peritum se nautam confundit. Quid namque est potestas culminis, nisi tempestas mentis? Inter haec itaque, quid sequendum est, quid tenendum, nisi vt virtutibus pollens, coactus ad regimen veniat, virtutibus vacuus ne coactus accedat?* But when he has begun, worldly to enjoy the office of his received principality, he willingly forgets, whatso-
