---
reading: burton-simony
page: 64
pdf_page: 80
sortable_pagination_id: 80
---

ever he had religiously purposed. Because he cannot learn humility when he is aloft, who while he was below did not cease to be proud. For commonly in the conduct of government, the very practice of good works is also lost, which in the tranquility of a private life was preserved. Since in a calm sea even an inexpert mariner can direct and guide his ship and himself, but in a tempestuous sea even a skillful pilot loses himself. For what else is the power of rule but the tempest of the mind? Therefore in these cases, what is to be followed, what is to be observed, but that he who excels in virtues should come to the place of government under compulsion, while he who is devoid of virtues should under no terms — not even under compulsion — be drawn to it. And he concludes: *Considerandum est ei, qui curam populi electus Praesul suscipit, quia quasi ad agrum medicus accedit. Si ergo in eius opere passiones viuunt, qua presumptione percussum mederi properat, qui in facie vulnus portat?* Therefore (says he) the elect prelate who takes upon him the care of the people must consider that he comes as a physician to a sick patient. If therefore passions do yet live in his practice, with what presumption does he hasten to heal the diseased, when he carries his wound in his own face?

But will some say: *Qui Episcopatum desiderat, bonum opus desiderat. Ergo licet mihi Episcopatum desiderare* — He that desires a bishopric desires a worthy work; therefore it is lawful for me to desire a bishopric. Let the same Gregorius make answer, upon the very same words, in his eighth chapter of the aforesaid book, which he entitles thus: *De iis, qui praeesse concupiscunt, & ad vsum suae libidinis instrumentum Apostolici sermonis arripiunt* \[Concerning those who covet to preside over others, and seize upon the instrument of the Apostle’s words for the use of their own ambition\] — 1 Timothy 3:1. *Notandum* (says he) *quod illo in tempore hec dicitur, qua quisquis praeerat, primus ad martyrij tormenta ducebatur. Tunc ergo laudabile fuit Episcopatum querere, quando per hunc, quemquam dubium non erat ad supplicia grauiora peruenisse. Vnde ipsum quoque Episcopatus Officium boni operis expressione definitur, cum dicitur, si quis Episcopatum desiderat, bonum opus desiderat. Ipse ergo sibi testis est, quia Episcopatum non appetit, qui non per hunc, boni operis Ministerium, sed honoris gloriam qua-*
