---
reading: burton-simony
page: 65
pdf_page: 81
sortable_pagination_id: 81
---

*rit. Quin repente subiungit Apostolus: Oportet autem Episcopum irreprehensibilem esse. Et sanet ergo ex desiderio, & terret ex precepto, ac si aperte dicat, laudo quod quaeritis, sed prius discite, quid queratis: ne dum vosmet ipsos metiri negligitis, tanto foedior vestra reprehensibilitas appareat quanto, & a cunctis conspici in honoris arce aestimatis. Sacrum quippe Officium non solum non diligit omnino, sed nescit, qui ad culmen regiminis anhelans in occulta meditatione cogitationis caeterorum subiectione pascitur: laude propria laetatur: ad honorem cor eleuat: rerum affluentium abundantia exultat. Mundi ergo lucrum quaeritur sub eius honoris specie, quo mundi destrui lucra debuerant. Cumque mens humilitatis culmen arripere ad elationem cogitat: quod foris appetit, intus immutat.* It is to be noted (says he) that this was spoken at that time when every prelate was the first to be led to the torments of martyrdom. Then it was commendable to desire a bishopric, when by it a man was certain to come to more grievous torments, etc. But that man not only does not love, but does not at all understand the sacred function, who, thirsting to climb to the top of governance, in his private thoughts feeds upon the subjection of others, flatters himself with his own praise, exalts his heart to honor, and exults in the abundance of his wealth. Therefore the gain of the world is sought under the guise of that honor by which the emoluments and gains of the world ought to have been destroyed.

Another objection here crosses my way on the patron’s behalf: “Sir, you need not be so strict against giving and receiving for a spiritual preferment — for my part, I have good intent to convert such money to some charitable use, as to bestow it in alms,” etc. Indeed this has been an old subterfuge in the Court of Rome. But Gratian says: *Non potest fieri Eleemosyna ex pecunia Simoniacae acquisita* — alms may not be given of money simoniacally gotten. And Gregory, Epistle 110, to certain bishops, condemns this sin thus: *Nimis declinandum est, dilectissimi fratres, sub obtentu Eleemosynae peccata Simoniacae haeresos perpetrare. Nam aliud est propter peccata Eleemosynas facere, aliud propter Eleemosynas peccata committere* — We must take the greatest care, beloved
