---
reading: burton-simony
page: 66
pdf_page: 82
sortable_pagination_id: 82
---

beloved brethren, not to commit the sins of simoniacal heresy under pretense of alms. For it is one thing to give alms on account of \[past\] sins, another thing to commit sin for the sake of \[future\] alms. This is like Saul’s sacrifice, reproved and rejected by Samuel, 1 Samuel 15. Or like the high priests’ charity, who with Judas’s betrayal-money — called simony by some — bought, forsooth, a field to bury strangers in. But for all this charitable work, by divine ordination (as Lyra says) the field acquired such a name as could never be washed off. For it is called the Field of Blood to this day. Matthew 27:8. And would that such charitable works, as they are done by simony, might so forever bear the brand of simony. As a famous courtesan in Rome, having built a fair house, caused this motto to be set over the front of the gate — well befitting her own shameless front: *Edificaverunt Peccatrices* — Courtesans built this house.

### Chapter XIII.

Of the unreasonableness of simony, particularly with regard to the office and function of a bishop or minister of the Gospel.

The Apostle, 1 Timothy 3:1, says: “This is a true saying: if a man desires the office of a bishop (or minister of the Gospel), he desires a good work.” Now such is the office of a bishop and minister of Christ that, if it be well weighed, a man will be well advised how he seeks or sues for such an office, much less be at the cost to purchase it at any price. For the office of the sacred order of bishops is not altogether so easy as the world takes it to be. Origen says: he who desires the office of a bishop to purchase glory
