---
reading: burton-simony
page: 68
pdf_page: 84
sortable_pagination_id: 84
---

and more acceptable to men, than the office of a bishop, or a priest, or deacon, if the office be carelessly or men-pleasingly performed; but with God nothing more miserable, woeful, and damnable. Also that there is nothing in this life, and most of all at this time, more difficult, painful, and perilous, than the office of a bishop, priest, or deacon; but with God nothing more blessed, if the combat be so managed as our Captain commands. And hence were those many tears which certain brethren, not knowing the cause, saw me shed in the city at the time of my ordination. And the same father says elsewhere, upon the words of the Apostle, *Qui Episcopatum desiderat, bonum opus desiderat* \[“He who desires the episcopate desires a good work”\]: *Exponere voluit, quid sit Episcopatus; quia nomen est operis, non honoris: ut intelligat non se esse Episcopum qui praeesse dilexerit, non prodesse* — he wished to explain what the episcopate is, because it is a name of work, not of honor, so that one may understand that he is not a bishop who has loved to preside, not to benefit. And a little after he says: *Locus superior, sine quo regi populus non potest, etsi ita teneatur atque administretur ut decet, tamen indecenter appetitur* — the superior place \[of the bishop\], without which the people cannot be governed, although it be maintained and managed as is fitting, yet it is unseemly for a man to hunt after it. So that (says he): *Otium sanctum quaerit charitas veritatis; negotium iustum suscipit necessitas charitatis. Quam sarcinam si nullus imponit, percipienda atque intuenda vacandum est veritati: si autem imponitur, suscipienda est propter charitatis necessitatem* — the love of truth seeks a holy retirement, and it is the necessity of charity that undertakes a just employment. Which burden, if no man imposes it, then one is the more free to devote one’s private life to the study of truth; but if it be imposed, it must be taken up for the very necessity of charity. Saint Chrysostomus says: I suppose no man, however thirsting for glory, would ever be made a bishop unless necessity impose it upon him. For who is sufficient for these things? For as that holy man further says: if you knew (says he) that a bishop ought to bear the burden of all; that if others are angry they are pardoned, but not he; that others sinning may have excuse, but not he — you would not hasten so, you would not run so to the prelacy. For he \[the bishop\] is exposed to all tongues, subject to all censures, both of the wise and the unwise; he
