---
reading: burton-simony
page: 7
pdf_page: 23
sortable_pagination_id: 23
---

not a benefice; a cure, not a cure. But in the end he must confess (and in this he does not jest) that he has certain locks on which a razor has never come — that is, certain flocks or fleeces never yet shorn from the church, or not touched (at least in his own drowsy sense and apprehension) with the razor of conviction under the name of simony. The temporal benefit he has indeed bought — namely the glebe, the tithe, and the like: prove this to be simony, and then I shall be as other men. And in this conceit of his he is as strong as Samson — indeed so confident that he dares say that tithes are mere temporalities, lay fees. But as Samson, after his locks were shaved, never thought his strength was gone until by woeful proof he found it: so our Simon here thinks all is well with him as long as he firmly imagines that his tithes are but temporalities — and on that ground, no simoniac, not as other men.

But now, Samson, the Philistines are upon you — yea, stronger than the Philistines: a troop of truths besets you. What? Tithes temporal? In what grammar have you learned to join this substantive and adjective together? I am certain not in God’s book. There is no such incongruity, no solecism, no false construction there. There he deserves the ferula, the rod — a woe upon him — who incongruously calls sour sweet and sweet sour, good evil and evil good; and shall he escape who calls sacred secular? Tithes, temporalities? Or he who says, “Give to Caesar the things that are God’s”? Let me but shake Aaron’s rod and Christ’s many-corded whip a little at our undisciplined Simon, to make him at least attentive to what the Scripture says. Tithes, I am certain, were once sacred; and what God has once made sacred, call not you common. But when were they sacred? Why, was it not when Adam was first created — when he was endued with the ten moral \[precepts\] of the law? And is it not more than probable that among the ten the Lord allotted a tithe for the maintenance of his service, seeing that among the ten he appointed a time for his
