---
reading: burton-simony
page: 71
pdf_page: 87
sortable_pagination_id: 87
---

a universal decay and corruption. These things I speak, not to press shame upon you, but to restrain your eager desires. But perhaps there is none such: God grant it, that so our words may vanish into the air and prove but words; and so may prove as potions which, the patient’s instant recovery being achieved, are thrown away. For considering the weight of a bishop’s office, and the weakness of many advanced to high places, I cannot imagine (he says) that any man, however ambitious, unless sheer necessity constrain him, would ever be consecrated a bishop. Thus far this holy and good bishop, Saint Chrysostom.

The same Father in another place says: Not only civil magistrates, but also prelates of the churches must render an account of their administration — and that a more strict and severe account than any other. For to those to whom the ministry of the Word is committed, there shall be a rigorous examination: whether he has, neither through slothfulness nor envy, omitted to speak anything which he ought to have spoken, and has declared by his deeds that he has taught all good duties, and has concealed nothing from his hearers which might be profitable for them. Again, he who has obtained a bishopric — the more highly he is exalted to the summit of honor, the more strict a reckoning shall be required of him: not only of his doctrine and care for the poor, but also of his examination of those to be ordained ministers, and of innumerable other duties. And in his Commentary on Titus: The higher the dignity is, the greater are the dangers of a minister. To omit other things which arise daily — if at any time it happens that either a friend or some other occasion is a means to promote an unworthy person to the dignity of a bishopric and commit to him the weighty governance of a city, into what tormenting fires does he throw himself? For he who in his more private manner of life has not been religious will certainly be much worse when he comes to undertake the governance of the Church. Therefore it is by all means to be wished that he who has formerly been endowed with piety may remain so still, having taken upon himself such a ministerial function. For now both vainglory does more eagerly haunt him, together with the love of
