---
reading: burton-simony
page: 72
pdf_page: 88
sortable_pagination_id: 88
---

money, and supercilious pride: inasmuch as dominion itself breeds a licentiousness of giving offense, of being contumelious, of speaking ill, and innumerable other \[vices\]. And if he who offends one soul had better have a millstone hung about his neck and be drowned in the bottom of the sea: then he who shall scandalize so many souls — whole cities and peoples, men, women, children, citizens, countrymen, his neighbors, and others further off who are under his charge — what shall he suffer? Therefore such a man has more need of the grace and peace of God; for unless these be the prop of his governance, all must perish and fall to the ground. For although you are ever so expert in governing, unless in your governance you have that grace and peace which is of God, the storm will engulf and drown in the deep both your ship and those who sail with you. For which cause, I am seized with great admiration of those men who so eagerly desire such burdens. You most unhappy and miserable of all men — do you not see what it is that you so desire? If a man diligently weighs the truth of the matter, such a one is not advanced to a lordship, but rather he is a servant to innumerable lords who continually covet and speak contrary things. So he, and much more to this purpose. And upon the Epistle to the Colossians: We execute an ambassage. But we desire not this honor for ourselves — God forbid: for we know the vileness of it — but for your sakes, that those things which are uttered by us you may the more diligently attend to, that you may receive profit thereby, lest you hear slothfully and negligently the things which are delivered. Let no man attend to me, but to the dignity of my ambassage. So this holy bishop.

In a word, Erasmus, in his Dedicatory Epistle before Saint Chrysostom’s Commentary upon the Epistle to the Galatians, says that a bishop sustains three persons: one, of a father, in his sacerdotal authority; another, of a mother, in the desire of bringing forth and bringing up her children; a third, of a nurse, in feeding the soul with wholesome doctrine. And as Aaron might not enter into the tabernacle and sanctuary except with his golden bells, or else he must die: so the minister of the
