---
reading: burton-simony
page: 73
pdf_page: 89
sortable_pagination_id: 89
---

the Gospel must have the golden Bells of the Gospel always sounding in his mouth, by which the sheep of Christ may be fed.

Seeing then that the office of a Bishop is attended with so many cares, exercised with so many duties, involved in so many dangers, exposed to so many storms, subject to such heavy judgments, liable to such sharp censures: who can blame Saint Chrysostom for wondering how any man should ambitiously seek and pursue such places, much less be at the cost to purchase them? Indeed, how many, weighing with themselves the insupportable burden of this Office — which would make the shoulders of Angels stoop under it — have not only refused it when offered (and that not with a formal *Nolo, nolo* \[I am unwilling, I am unwilling\]), but have hidden themselves and run from it as far as they could. How often did Nilus, a holy man of God, seriously and truly refuse a bishopric so often pressed upon him? — who at length, in the midst of his fervent prayer offered up to God, yielded up his spirit to him who gave it. Besides, sundry of the Fathers — those whom Claudius Espencaeus mentions *de fuga Episcopatus* \[on fleeing the episcopate\] — shunned those high places, measuring them rather by their weight than by their height. We could produce examples at home: that learned Dean Nowell, of reverend memory, and that learned and godly Gilpin, who both lived within the memory of the present age, when both there was so much grace in the world as freely to offer, and in them as constantly as modestly to refuse.

Gaspar Contarenus, a learned Cardinal who lived and participated in the Council of Trent, but who was much more honest than many of his fellows, writing of the office of a Bishop, has these words: *Episcopus medius est inter diuinos spiritus, & humanum genus. Ex quo perspicuum est, Oportere Episcopum tum Angelica, tum humana naturae quadam ratione participem esse: quod cum de se nullus, quanquam virtutibus ornatissimus, polliceri possit: idcirco Episcopatum optare, absque arrogantiae crimine, aut auaritia, aut ambitionis, nequit illas.* A Bishop (says he) is a middle person between the divine
