---
reading: burton-simony
page: 75
pdf_page: 91
sortable_pagination_id: 91
---

rule, whether they go forward or backward in Christian Religion, they do not so much as receive one message; and of the poor of their flock, they are altogether negligent and ignorant. Is this to be a Bishop? Is this to imitate the Disciples of Christ and to observe the Evangelical precepts? Therefore a good Bishop shall labour not to commit his flock to another’s Cure, but to be absent from the Fold as short a time as possible, unless for some reason he is called away by the Pope for some special service for the good of the Christian commonwealth. But let him not wish or desire this occasion to be given him, nor let him seek any such thing; but let him very reluctantly, and in a manner unwillingly, undertake this task; which being dispatched, let him not procure another, but with all speed let him return to his flock: so he. As Cardinal Pole, being entreated by a Bishop for one month’s absence from his flock — notwithstanding he had formerly admonished him not to leave his flock — answered (giving him leave, but for no longer time): I shall take this comfort from your departure, that you will be beaten the less. This Cardinal also, being in election and nomination for the Papacy and being charged with ambition in too hastily aspiring to that dignity, answered that he thought the burden of that great office by no means so light, but that he was of the mind that it was rather to be feared than desired. As for those who did not understand, and thought more meanly of so great a place, he lamented their case and was sorry for them.

Devout Bernard, complaining also of the course of his times, says among many other things in his sermon *Ad Clerum* \[To the Clergy\]: *Quem dabis mihi de numero Episcoporum, qui non plus inuigilet Subditorum euacuandis marsupiis, quam vitiis extirpandis? Vbi est, qui flectat iram? Vbi est, qui praedicet annum placabilem Domino? Propterea relinquamus istos, quia non sunt Pastores, sed traditores, & imitemur illos, qui uiuentes in carne, plantauerunt Ecclesiam sanguine suo. Et quidem isti sortiti sunt Ministerii locum, sed non zelum. Successores omnes cupiunt esse, imitatores pauci. Vtinam tam uigiles reperirentur ad curam, quam alacres currunt ad Cathedram, &c.* Whom will you show me from among all the row of Bishops, who is not more vigilant in emptying his
