---
reading: burton-simony
page: 77
pdf_page: 93
sortable_pagination_id: 93
---

principally necessary: namely, that they enter by the door; that they contain themselves in humility; that they shun avarice; that they study to keep purity as well in heart as in body. But what does it avail to be canonically chosen (which is to enter by the door) and not to live canonically? The Lord said to the twelve, “Have not I chosen you twelve, and one of you is a devil?” Lord Jesus, seeing that the election was in your own power, and you had none to contradict or control you, why did you choose a devil? Why, good Jesus, did you not choose a good, just, and holy man, such as Peter was? Or if you chose a devil, why do you boast of it? Brethren, so does Jesus now, choosing many devil-bishops. Where (alas!) shall we find bishops who, after they have obtained the dignity, contain themselves in humility? For pride provokes them to aspire to so great a dignity, to make an impudent irruption into Christ’s sheepfold — though notwithstanding the Lord says by the Psalmist, “The proud man shall not dwell in the midst of my house.” Woe is me, O Lord Jesus, if I shall be in your house and not in the midst of your house: for you are always in the midst. But these \[bishops\] are not so. They are with Jesus, but not in the midst of his house, because they love and live in pride, extolling their parents who promoted them, but despising and oppressing the poor. They live a wicked life and would have their people live so too. And therefore they are compared to the apostate angel, who said in his heart, “I will plant my seat upon the North Pole.” What does it mean that the devil will pitch his seat upon the North? Only that every proud and impious man either aspires to or usurps dominion over those who are like him — those who are remote from the warmth of charity and from the light of wisdom. This and much more this devout man.

Now to draw all that has been said in this chapter by those holy and ancient men of the Church to a corollary or conclusion: If such is the office of a bishop; if (as Origen says) it makes the ambitious drunk with vainglory; if (as Saint Cyril) \[it is\] to be punished with fearful flames; if he must render a strict account for himself and for all under his jurisdiction; if (as Saint Augustine) nothing
