---
reading: burton-simony
page: 8
pdf_page: 24
sortable_pagination_id: 24
---

service — even the Sabbath day — upon the sanctification of which tithes were properly to attend? Tithes, then, were doubtless sacred from the beginning of Adam’s creation. For otherwise, when did Abraham learn to pay tithes of all things to Melchizedek, the priest of the most high God? Or what moved Jacob to vow the paying of tithes? Was it only from the example of his grandfather? Or were his tithes only voluntary and discretionary until made necessary by a vow? Why not, then, his other service, which he vowed at the same time, and which he was bound to perform even had he not vowed it at all? His vow was only a stronger bond to hold and help him to the better performance of a duty that was nonetheless owed without any vow — just as our solemn vow in baptism is only a stronger bond to bind us to that obedience to God which we ought most carefully to perform, no less than if we had not vowed it at all.

But if you still deny that tithes are consecrated and sacred by divine instinct or institution, for want of an explicit precept, yet at the very least you yourself cannot but confess that they began then to be sacred when God said (Leviticus 27:30), “All the tithe of the land, both of the seed of the ground and the fruit of the trees, is the Lord’s; it is holy to the Lord.” Yea, so holy, so sacred that (as in the next verse) “if any man shall redeem any of his tithe, he shall add a fifth part thereto.” And “every tithe of bullock and of sheep, and of all that goes under the rod, the tenth shall be holy unto the Lord” (v. 32). Yea, so holy that at v. 33, “he shall not look whether it be good or bad, neither shall he change it; else if he change it, both it and that with which it was changed shall be holy, and it shall not be redeemed.” See then how sacred tithes are ratified by a double tense — “they are holy” and “they shall be holy to the Lord” — as Jacob confirmed his son’s blessing: “I have blessed him, and he shall be blessed.” And where it is said that the tenth *is* holy to the Lord, \*a learned and reverend prelate of our church in his book on tithes has drawn from the present tense
