---
reading: burton-simony
page: 80
pdf_page: 96
sortable_pagination_id: 96
---

Irenaeus calls Simon Magus the father of all heretics. Yea, says Aquinas, the impious heresy of the Macedonians and of those of his sect — impugners of the deity of the Holy Ghost — is more tolerable than that of the simoniacs. For those, in their dotage, yet confessed that the Holy Ghost was a creature and servant of the Father and the Son; but these make the same Holy Ghost to be their own servant. For whoever takes upon himself to buy or sell anything, takes upon himself also to be the master and proprietor of what he so buys or sells.

Yea, so odious is the sin of simony that Pope Deodate said that no Catholic is to be turned away but, for avouching the truth and making known the madness of simony, is to be exhorted with most earnest entreaty. For, says he, there is none so vile or infamous who may not be admitted as a competent witness against a simoniac, since the simoniac is the most vile and infamous of all men. Therefore even a bondservant, a whore, a criminal person may accuse a simoniac — yea, even a servant his master. And every sinful man may sing a Mass, but a simoniac may not. So he.

But some will say, this is but the *brutum fulmen* \[empty thunderbolt\] of a Pope. Yea, it ought so much the more to make us — whom the condition of so many popes has made to abominate the very name of Pope — to be afraid and to start at the very name of simony more than at a crack of thunder. If the heathen Abimelech so highly honors marriage and the sacred laws thereof that he sharply reproves Abraham for hazarding his fair wife, how shall not faithful Abraham and Sarah blush the more at such a man’s rebuke?

Gregory says: *Specialiter*, etc. — let both the clergy and people, the electors, specially and absolutely know that that man is not only unworthy of the priesthood but will be found also liable and culpable of other crimes, whosoever he be that presumes to buy the gift of God with money. So that the like punishment and penalty is equally due both to the elected and to the
