---
reading: burton-simony
page: 81
pdf_page: 97
sortable_pagination_id: 97
---

the Electors, if they shall attempt to violate the purity of the Priesthood with a sacrilegious intent. So he.

From which we may learn that the sin of simony never goes alone, whether in the Buyer or in the Seller: but like the master bee, it is attended by a swarm of other enormities. In the Canons of the Apostles (so called): *Si quis Episcopus, &c.* \[If any Bishop or Priest or Deacon shall obtain this dignity by money, let both him and his Ordainers be degraded and wholly cut off from the communion of Saints, as Simon Magus was by Peter.\] Aquinas says: No man, on any account, ought to receive Ordination from a Bishop whom he knows to have been simoniacally promoted. And if he is ordained by him, he does not thereby receive the exercise of his Order, even if he did not know the Bishop to be a simoniac, but requires a dispensation. Indeed, says another: He who is a simoniac in Order, even if he be a Bishop, none can dispense with him — not even our Lord the Pope (as they say) — because such a one has a flawed Character, which, being nonetheless indelible, he cannot renounce, and so the sin cannot be purged. (Although Gratian says that the Pope may as well dispense with it as with a thief, though he restore not the theft.) So that the case of simony in Ordination may seem not much unlike the Popish Transubstantiation, which stands upon such slippery points, Ifs and Ands: as if the \* intention of the Priest, at the very word of their consecration, is absent or wandering elsewhere, as Baal’s ghost was while his Prophets prayed to him; or if the Bishop who gave that Priest Ordination did not at that time have a right intention; or if the Bishop who consecrated that Bishop lacked a right intention in the very act; and so on upward. If (as they say) any of these have failed, there is likely to be no Creator created of the Creature, no Transubstantiation. So too in simony: if a man obtains a Bishopric by simony, he does not receive the power of exercising his Order, and consequently he can confer no power upon any whom he shall ordain, because *Nemo dat quod non habet* \[No one gives what he does not have\]. This being so, it should follow that all the Ministry ordained by him, and so successively downward, be.
