---
reading: burton-simony
page: 82
pdf_page: 98
sortable_pagination_id: 98
---

becomes a mere nullity. Whereupon Gregory in the Gloss says: Can a man receive Orders from one whom he knows to have been simoniacally promoted to his Bishopric? *Dico, quod non* \[I say, that he cannot\]. Indeed, even if he did not know it: and by receiving Orders from him, he does not thereby receive the exercise \[of the Order\], since the Ordinator has none himself. And a man (says he) ought rather to suffer Excommunication than receive Ordination from such a one. If this is so, what a flaw and breach does simony make in a Ministry? Yet Pope Urban does somewhat mitigate the matter: *Si qui, &c.* \[If any are ordained by simoniacs, not simoniacally, and can prove that when they were ordained they did not know their Ordainers to be simoniacs in Order, and that at that time the ordinations of such persons were held in the Church as canonical, we mercifully bear with them, provided they live worthily.\] But those who knowingly allow themselves to be consecrated (or rather execrated) by simoniacs, we adjudge their Consecration to be altogether void. So he. Also Nicholas II and Alexander II: *De cetero statuimus, &c.* \[We do further enact, that if any henceforth shall allow himself to be consecrated by one whom he does not doubt to be a simoniac in Order, both the Consecrator and the Consecrated shall undergo like condemnation, and both of them, being deposed, let them repent and do penance, and so remain deprived of their proper dignity.\] And again: *Erga Simoniacos, &c.* \[Towards simoniacs we have decreed that no mercy be extended for the retaining of their Dignity, but according to canonical sanctions and decrees of the Holy Fathers, we do by Apostolic Authority adjudge them to be altogether condemned and deposed.\] What terrible thunderclaps are these. Now if the case be so, as the Disciples said about Divorce, then it is not good to Marry: so some man might say, then it is not good to be a Minister. But as our Lord said upon another occasion in that same chapter (Matthew 19), when his Disciples said, “Who then can be saved?” he answered, “With men it is impossible, but with God all things are possible.” But every one shall bear his own burden. I will conclude with the Conclusion of the second Canon of the Council of Chalcedon: *Si quis*
