---
reading: burton-simony
page: 85
pdf_page: 101
sortable_pagination_id: 101
---

in general, as Abel offered *de primogenitis*, of the firstlings: secondly, contemptuously, of the meanest, opposite to Abel’s fatlings; thirdly, with an averse or impious mind — for Cain brought, not *Cain ipse*, as it is said of Abel, *Abel ipse*, Abel himself brought, that is, with all his heart; for *animus cuiusque is est quisque* \[a man’s soul is himself\]: fourthly, proudly, as if scorning to carry his offering himself, and therefore *Cain ipse* is not expressed (as the learned note) as *Abel ipse attulit*. For this, I say — for offering sparingly, contemptuously, impiously, proudly — Cain was rejected; the Lord had no respect for him and his offering. So that this impious mind of his toward God, begetting other sins, did utterly cast him out from the presence of God’s grace and favor, the greatest punishment in the world, as he himself confessed and complained of. Gehazi and his whole posterity — how fearfully were they branded with a hereditary leprosy for the father’s single sin of selling his master’s gift of healing! A stupendous example, and the more so if we but weigh the circumstances. For Gehazi received his two talents from Naaman only after the cure, and not by any prior contract or precondition; also he was not so covetous as to take or demand all that Naaman had brought to present to his master; yea, more was pressed upon him than he required. Again, Naaman was a Syrian, a foreigner, one whom perhaps he would never see again, and one rich enough to spare such a small reward, as Gehazi thought he might just as well take rather than let him go away free. “Behold,” says he to himself, “my master has spared this Aramean Naaman: as the Lord lives, I will run after him and take something from him.” But indeed he lied to Naaman, and returning, lied again to his master — and perhaps he would most courageously have taken the oath of simony upon it: for the sin of simony never goes alone. Yet it was his taking that was expressly charged against him, and for which he was smitten with an inexpiable leprosy that struck and smote his whole race. Now, if so dire was his doom merely for such an act: what shall become of all those patrons who stand
