---
reading: burton-simony
page: 86
pdf_page: 102
sortable_pagination_id: 102
---

not upon a bare promise or hint of gratuity, but make their bargain firm upon the nail or upon the scale — as Judas would not sell and betray Christ before he saw and felt the money — who take all that comes, and more too if they can compass it, and allow their servants also to make the best advantage, so long as it is not to their own hindrance? Who have no regard for whether the buyer is rich or poor, Syrian or Christian, good or bad — all is fish that comes to their net? Or this example of Gehazi may terrify all such servants of the Prophet, or of any patron, who, however their master makes a conscience of receiving anything from the hands of ministers, yet he, forsooth, must have a share in the business, or else it will go but slowly forward. To omit Achan’s example — being only sacrilegious, not simoniacal, though his punishment was fearful — what a general judgment of dearth was upon all the land of the Jews for only defrauding God of his tithes? And is not selling a benefice or ecclesiastical preferment equivalent to the sacrilegious withholding of tithes, and so a defrauding of God? For it is a snare to devour that which is sanctified, and after vows to make inquiry. “You are cursed with a curse, even this whole nation. Why? You have robbed me, says the Lord. Wherein? In tithes and offerings: therefore I have cursed your blessings.” O fearful curse! “But bring all the tithes into the storehouse” — mark, *all* the tithes; abate none, either by way of fine or of rent, either by manual payment in gross or by annual deduction. Else the curse will not depart. “Yea, I will curse your blessings,” says God. What is this to us? Surely when I consider how, like Tantalus, we are perplexed amid prosperity; how pinched in the midst of plenty; how our farmers — the staffs of state — never complained more of want and penury than now, when their barns are most full and their fields most fruitful; yea more, when in such abundance of that celestial bread, that bread of life, the blessed Word of God, yet the souls of men in general are so hunger-starved, so ill-thriven, like Pharaoh’s lean kine; when in such plenty of preaching and teach-
