---
reading: burton-simony
page: 87
pdf_page: 103
sortable_pagination_id: 103
---

ing I see so little — little or no — practice: may we not see, and may we not say, that this curse has befallen us — “I have cursed your blessings”? What might be the cause? Is there any other cause but one? No other cause but one can we read of for which the Lord says, “I have cursed your blessings,” or “I have cursed you with a curse.” If sacrilege and simony on all sides may be the cause, has not God cause enough to deal thus with us? The Lord amend us, that so he may both lighten his heavy hand upon us — which we cannot but feel at present — and stay his raised hand, which we cannot but see threatening us with greater judgments (if greater judgments can be than the cursing of our blessings), except we repent. And repent we do not, unless we obey the Lord’s voice, who says there, “Bring all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house, and prove me now herewith, says the Lord, if I will not open the windows of heaven and pour you out a blessing without measure.” A blessing without a cursing. This the good King Hezekiah and his whole kingdom proved, when upon the faithful bringing in of all their tithes and offerings they found such abundance that Hezekiah marveled at the heaps; and Azariah the priest answered him that since the people brought their tithes and offerings, the Lord has blessed his people, and this abundance is left. What should I here insert Belshazzar’s profane drinking from the sacred bowls, who in the midst of his revelry saw that fearful handwriting upon the wall? Daniel 5. And shall our sacrilegists or simoniacs so securely carouse not only from sacred bowls, but even the blood of men’s souls — by either their sacrilegious withholding in gross, or their simoniacal pilfering piece by piece of the maintenance of the ministry, which God has ordained for the salvation of the souls of his people?

Come we to the examples of the New Testament. With what divine zeal and fiery indignation was that meek Lamb of God inflamed when he whipped those buyers and sellers out of the Temple, calling them thieves, and cutting
