---
reading: burton-simony
page: 89
pdf_page: 105
sortable_pagination_id: 105
---

Let her beware of all apocryphal books — which yet she may read, not for the truth of their doctrines, but for the reverence due to the examples in the story. So let no one doubt the truth of this example. Saint Ambrose also mentions it on a similar occasion. This Heliodorus, having been sent by King Seleucus to plunder the Temple, when no humble entreaties from the priests and people could dissuade him from his impious enterprise, was miraculously set upon by a man on horseback in gilded armor; and moreover was fiercely attacked, whipped, and scourged by two men who appeared to be young men — so that with great difficulty recovering from a deadly swoon, and escaping with his life through the priests’ prayers, he returned home with this answer to his king: that if the king had any enemies or traitors whom he wished well punished, he should simply send them to the place where he himself had been. Josephus reports how Marcus Crassus, having despoiled the Temple at Jerusalem of all that mass of treasure which the pious Pompey had refrained from touching, was therefore — he and his whole army — utterly overthrown at the crossing of the Euphrates. And in the sixth book of the same work, in the sixteenth chapter, Josephus shows by the example of John, one of the seditious men, that the sacrilege he committed in robbing the Temple of the priests’ maintenance was one of those forerunning sins that hastened the final and fatal ruin of the holy city. I might add to these many examples from secular histories, scrupulously noted by the pagans themselves, of divine vengeance inflicted upon their sacrilegious persons. But Aesop may serve to sum them all up in his apologue of the Eagle, which, snatching the sacrifice from off the altar, caught up with it a coal that, carried with the sacrifice to her nest, set both nest and herself on fire. The moral applies itself. And I pray God all sacrilegious simoniacs may so apply it, and lay it to their hearts, that they may prevent the hellfire prepared for the Devil and his angels, for Simon and all his angels.

Now all these exemplary punishments and judgments that
