---
reading: burton-simony
page: 9
pdf_page: 25
sortable_pagination_id: 25
---

drawn this observation: that the tenth did not begin now to be sacred or consecrated, but only to be appropriated for a time to the Levites, concluding the Ordinance to be morally perpetual from the Creation.

### CHAP. IV.

Tithes in the New Testament proved to be equally sacred as those in the Old, against the simoniacs’ objection: and consequently the definition of simony, concluded according to the former definitions of it, by the Schoolmen and Canons.

“Yes,” says our Simon, “I do not deny that the tenth was holy and sacred during the time of the Old Testament, but it ceases to be so now in the New.” O Heresy, worthy of Simon himself! O Folly, well befitting the Arameans! who, having already been overcome in the mountains, promised themselves victory in the valley, saying, “The Lord is the God of the mountains, and not God of the valleys.” And is the Lord the God of the Old Testament, and not God of the New? Yes, even of the New also. For mark this: the tithes were not said to be holy to the Levites, but to the Lord; nor that they were the Levites’, but the Lord’s. “The tithe is the Lord’s; it is holy to the Lord” (Leviticus 27:30). Therefore, the Lord rebuking the Jews for neglecting the payment of their tithes, he takes the wrong as done to himself, saying, “You have robbed Me” (Malachi 3:8). He does not say, “You have despoiled the Levite and the Priest,” but, “You have despoiled Me.” If then the Lord himself, and not the Levite, is entitled and vested in the proper right of tithes, then certainly they are as sacred now in the New Testament as ever they were in the Old. “The tithes are holy to the Lord” (Leviticus 27:28), “and they shall be holy to the Lord” (v. 32). They are holy (it was then said) to the Lord of the Old Testament, and they shall be holy
