---
reading: burton-simony
page: 91
pdf_page: 107
sortable_pagination_id: 107
---

that which you will not give to the priest. God is always ready to bless, but he is hindered by the malice of men. For tithes are required as a debt, and those who will not pay them invade the goods of others. And however many poor souls in that parish where he lives who pays not his tithes shall perish of hunger, of so many murders shall he stand guilty before the tribunal of the eternal Judge — because that which God has allotted for the poor, he has reserved for his own uses. He therefore who desires either to obtain a reward for himself, or to procure the pardon of his sins, let him pay his tithes; and let him also not be negligent in giving alms of the nine parts to the poor. Thus this holy Father.

Now for a corollary or conclusion of this point touching the censures of sacrilegious simoniacs, I will give a brief account of those observations which Rebuffus has collected in his last question of his Tract on Tithes. I omit to set down his authorities as cited by him, referring that to the reader at his pleasure or leisure. He who does not pay his tithes but either sells them or withholds any part of them fights against God. Secondly, he shall be always poor. In former times when four kinds of tithes were duly paid, men grew rich; now when even one is not well paid, men are reduced to a tenth, and the Lord does not remove their plagues. Thirdly, they are cursed by God with penury, with pestilence, with sudden death, and with a perishing name. Fourthly, they shall lack necessaries who deny God their duties. Fifthly, they are the heirs of eternal death. Sixthly, they shall be subject to bodily infirmities and diseases. Seventhly, they shall be associated with the devils, who (as some say) are the tenth part of the angels. Eighthly, he who will not give what is due to God shall give to the profane soldier that which he will not give to the priest. Ninthly, such a one is a thief and a person of ill repute. Tenthly, such shall be guilty before God’s tribunal of murdering so many poor souls as have perished for want of the minister’s maintenance not being paid. Eleventhly, such are sacrilegious persons, and consequently liable to eternal damnation, and ought every Lord’s day to be denounced by the minister as excommunicate. Twelfthly, defrauders of tithes ought
