---
reading: burton-simony
page: 93
pdf_page: 109
sortable_pagination_id: 109
---

### CHAP. XV.

### Of the miserable fruits and effects of simony.

The effects and fruits of simony are no less miserable than the censures are grievous and the punishments thereof intolerable. For as Simon is the father of all simoniacs, so simony is the mother of all mischiefs in the Church. For simony does usually poison and corrupt two wellheads from which the streams of good life generally flow to all the people — that is, the parson and the patron. These are, as it were, the two great lights in the firmament of the Church, from whom the sublunary and subordinate people receive the direction and conduct of their life.

Now for the parson or minister, he is the salt of the earth, the light of the world, the guide of the simple — but whom simony makes unsavory, darkens, and blinds. Therefore, as Saint Chrysostom says, *When the candle is extinguished, when the pilot is drowned, when the captain is taken captive, what remains for the rest?* “Let no man despise your youth,” said the Apostle to Timothy. Why? Because nothing does more impede and disadvantage a minister’s labors, and frustrate all the fruit of his calling, than contempt justly brought upon his person. And nothing makes him more contemptible than simony. And what so captivates their spiritual captains, what makes them so mute in God’s cause, what does so emasculate their manly profession, that they dare not do their duty when necessity commands it — if not simony? For as Saint Cyril says, *A good pastor, entering into the fold by the authority of the Holy Ghost — as of the porter — the sheep hear his voice and willingly obey him, knowing and acknowledging the goodness and integrity of their shepherd: but when they find that their pastor came not in by the door but climbed up another way, neither do they so much esteem his exhortations*
