---
reading: burton-simony
page: 94
pdf_page: 110
sortable_pagination_id: 110
---

to virtue, nor so readily obey his precepts, because his violent intrusion into the sheepfold diminishes much of his reverence and dignity, and causes them to love him less and to esteem him more lightly. So he. And Gregory, *Epistle 113, To Brunhild*: “Therefore it comes about that the dignity of the priesthood is brought into contempt, and sacred honor is made into a crime. Reverence perishes and discipline is taken away, because he who ought to have corrected faults commits them; and the honorable censure of the priesthood is led into corruption by wicked ambition. For who will henceforth venerate what is sold? Or who will not think that cheap which is bought?” So that simony is as the dead fly corrupting the box of ointment: it mars not only the good nature but the good name of a minister, which should be as a precious ointment poured forth, perfuming the whole house of God and causing others to run after the sweet smell of it. Saint Ambrose compares the minister to the head, saying: “Just as when the head is diseased, the rest of the body must needs be lethally flooded by the overflow of the superior sickness — so also those who appear to be the head of the Church, being infected with a pestilential disease, corrupt the fraternal body, so that nothing from the whole frame of the body can escape uncontaminated by the deadly poison of the corruption of negligent priests. Thus you see in the Church everywhere those whom not merit but money has advanced to the order of the episcopate: a trifling and ignorant people who have brought such a priest upon themselves. If you would faithfully inquire of them who set them over the people as priests, they answer at once and say: ‘I was recently ordained bishop by the Archbishop; I gave him a hundred shillings so that I might merit to obtain episcopal grace. If I had not given them, I would not be a bishop today. Therefore it is better for me to spend gold from my purse than to lose so great a priesthood. I gave gold and purchased the episcopate. These shillings, however, I do not doubt I shall recover from wine straight away. I ordain priests, I consecrate deacons, and I receive gold. For from other orders likewise I am confident I can realize a profit from money. Behold, the gold I gave I have received back into my purse, and the episcopate I have received for nothing.’ And ignorant and unlearned people at their ordinations cry out and say, ‘You are worthy, you are just’; while the wretched conscience says, ‘You are unworthy, and unjust.’ For the bishop of this kind pronounces to the people
