---
reading: burton-simony
page: 95
pdf_page: 111
sortable_pagination_id: 111
---

saying: ‘Peace be with you.’ To carnal eyes he appears as a great bishop, but to the divine gaze he is seen as a great leper. Through money he acquired an undeserved order, and he has lost God in the inner man. The flesh has received dignity and the soul has lost its honor. The flesh, formerly the handmaid, has become mistress of the soul; and the soul, which was mistress, has become servant to the flesh. The flesh rules over peoples, and the soul serves the devil. He has purchased the priesthood for the flesh and prepared ruin for the soul. What he gave when he was ordained was gold; what he lost was his soul. When he ordained another, what he received was money, and what he gave was leprosy. These are the traffickings of the wicked, to their own destruction.” And the same holy father, in his sixth chapter of the same book, pursues this argument thus: “Behold, to what evils is the godly order dragged down! Behold, to what shameful depths have priests fallen, who deserved to hear from the Judge of the world, ‘You are the salt of the earth.’ If therefore the bishop ordained by the Lord is the light of the Church — such that his eloquence, shining forth, illuminates the dark recesses of consciences with the light of his preaching amid the shadows of ignorance — why is he himself held fast and bound in palpable darkness? And not only does he himself perish deservedly by acting wickedly, but he also undeservedly destroys others along with himself. For if you merited to possess the savor of salt, so that you might be able to season the fields of the unwise — why, being made insipid by such a vice, have you offered yourself to be trampled under the unclean feet of swine, so that you can season neither others nor yourself? You also voluntarily sought the office of the eyes in the body — that is, in the Church — so that through you the rest of the body might have the guidance of light: and now, darkened by a kind of bleary-eyedness and blindness of vices, you neither offer yourself as fit for the light, nor do you refrain from taking away the light from others. Concerning these eyes, it is said in the Gospel: ‘If your eye is sound, your whole body will be full of light’ — that is, if the bishop, who has merited to preside as light in the body, is adorned with holy simplicity and innocence, the whole Church is bathed in the splendor of light. ‘But if your eye is evil, your whole body will be full of darkness’ — that is, if the bishop, who appeared to provide light to the subject body, is obscured by the blindness of wickedness, what shall the other members do, from whom the light of the eyes has been taken? That is: what will the mass of the secular people do, when by illicit pleasures and forbidden deeds the bishop has provoked the multitude of the people to a like whirlpool of crimes, so that nothing will now seem unlawful
