---
reading: burton-simony
page: 96
pdf_page: 112
sortable_pagination_id: 112
---

which appears, as it were, lawfully perpetrated by the bishop. Rather, men believe that whatever a bishop finds pleasing is all the more praiseworthy. And no one says that he hesitates to do what the bishop does not scruple to do. For you are called bishop by all without hesitation — especially since you are known by that very name — provided that your conduct agrees with the name and the name joins itself to the conduct. For what else does ‘bishop’ mean but ‘overseer’? Especially since he sits on a loftier throne in the Church and so looks upon all, that the eyes of all look upon him. Since this is so, then, why do you display yourself as a foul mirror to the eyes of all, so that they cannot adorn themselves more fittingly in the reflection of your example?” So this holy bishop. Why should I cite more? “If King Jeroboam, having excluded the true Levites, consecrates as priest for himself anyone from the lowest of the people who brings with him a heifer and seven rams — what wonder if he alone made the entire nation of Israel to sin? But who are these lowborn men of the dregs of the people, co-opted into the sacred order? Namely those whom David calls vile — that is, devoid of the fear of the Lord. In such a priesthood of Israel, therefore, if no holy and upright person is to be found, if among so many kings not one was free from the most foul idolatry and the stain of every vice — who would rightly wonder? For just as the whole world is shaped by the example of the king, so such as the shepherd, such is the flock. In a priesthood corrupted by the taint of simony, you seek in vain for a pious and upright people. And if a simoniac can be holy, then the name of holiness would apply equally to a thief. For he who does not enter by the door but climbs up another way into the sheepfold is a thief and a robber, says that great Shepherd.” Hence Lyra: “And this is what all unbelievers do, and also wicked believers” — that is, those who profess the faith — “who attain to the state of prelacy without due right.” But (says he) he that enters in by the door — that is, by the faith and humility of Christ, and by his other virtues — to him the porter opens, that is, the Holy Ghost reveals his truth, that he may feed his sheep: but the thief comes not but to kill. So Lyra. Damianus tells of a certain simoniacal bishop who by no means could name the Holy Ghost, though he could name the Father and the Son; but when he came to name the Holy Ghost, his tongue would stammer and become stiff. “Deservedly indeed — for he who bought \[the Spirit\] by that very act lost it: so that the Spirit, being shut out from his soul, should consequently be far also from his tongue.” This bishop, convicted by this impediment,
