---
reading: burton-simony
page: 98
pdf_page: 114
sortable_pagination_id: 114
---

of the truth. These two being like the two main pillars upon which the whole house rests: if simony, like *Samson*, shakes these down, tell me how the whole parish can fail to perish with them? We have a memorable and much-lamented example of this in *Herod* and *Caiaphas*, the one the patron selling, the other the priest purchasing. For it is well observed by Ferus that *Annas* and *Caiaphas* purchased for themselves the yearly alternation of succession in the office of the High Priest, which is noted by the Evangelist in saying that *Caiaphas* was the High Priest for that year. So that *Annas* and *Caiaphas*, the father-in-law and son-in-law, had their yearly turns in the High Priest’s office, rendering to *Herod* a yearly return for the same, to keep his fingers in constant use and practice. *Unde facile conjici potest quam nihil pietatis habuerint, multum autem arrogantiae et vana gloria* — whence it may easily be conjectured how little or no piety they had, and how much pride and vain-glory; so says Ferus. And who so fit as these grand simoniacs to be the betrayers and murderers of the Lord Jesus Christ? From which followed the fatal ruin of that most ancient and renowned Church and nation of the Jews. So when the Lord had pronounced that fatal and final destruction upon *Jerusalem* and that Church, does he not immediately thereafter go into the Temple and purge it of those profane merchants? Indicating that such profanation of the Church by buyers and sellers should be one principal cause of its ruin (Luke 19:44–45). Saint *Augustine* reported that the holy fire of the sacrifice, which during the seventy years of captivity in *Babylon* had lived preserved under water, was extinguished when *Antiochus* sold the Priesthood to *Jason*. And what wonder then if the fire of godly zeal, and the very life and light of religion, is in danger of being wholly extinguished in that Church where simony is predominant? In Pope *Gregory IX*’s time, a Greek Archbishop-elect, coming to Rome to be confirmed and failing to obtain confirmation without a large sum of money, thereupon returned *re infecta* \[his business undone\], which gave the first occasion to the Greek Church to revolt and tear itself from
