---
reading: ames-conscience-4.25
page: 65
pdf_page: 241
sortable_pagination_id: 241
---

Secondly, in a Church constituted also, with her approbation, if confusion be avoyded, and order observed, 1 Cor. 14. 23, &c. Acts 13, 15. For it pertaines to the edification of the Church, that they who excell others in gifts, doe exercise them before others to helpe them, and excite them.

4. 3. Yet for one to invade the proper duty of a Minister, without a speciall calling, is altogether unlawfull, Heb. 5. 4. Tit. 1. 5. Jer. 14. 14.

First, because there is required a singular seperation of God, Acts 13. 1, and 20. 28. Rom. 1. 1.

Secondly, there is required an undertaking of a singular, and weighty function, the author and dispenser of which is God himselfe. Ephes. 4. 11. 1 Corinth. 12. 5, 6. Matt. 9. 38.

Thirdly, there is required a singular assurance of the assistance of God.

Fourthly, there is required a singular expectation of a blessing from God, Mat. 28. 20.

Fiftly, there is required singular fidelity, and alacrity, 1 Tim. 4. 14.

Sixtly, it is requisite that that Church to which he is to minister be assured of the will of God whereby hee hath appointed such a one for their Minister, that they may bee subject to him out of conscience, Heb 13. 17.

Seventhly, it is requisite that order be observed, 1 Cor. 14. 40.

## Quest. 3. What things are necessarily required in him that is to be called to the Ministry?

5. A. 1. Such an integrity of life, that he be not onely without Scandall, but also have a good testimony, 1 Tim 3. 7. By a testimony here is understood the good opinion that we have concerning his uprightnesse, made manifest by his honest and pious conversation.

6. 2. Knowledge and skill in the Doctrine of Christ, above the common sort of Beleevers, 2 Tim. 3. 16, 17. To which also must be added, the understanding of those things which pertaine to his Office in governing the Church, 1 Timothie 3. 16.

7. 3. Some dexteritie in teaching, or in communicating unto
