---
reading: ames-conscience-4.25
page: 66
pdf_page: 242
sortable_pagination_id: 242
---

unto others, that knowledge which he hath himselfe.

8. 4 A will in some sort ready to undertake the Ministry, and to discharge it: which will of his ought to arise from feare of poverty, or such like discommodity; or out of a desire of superiority, fame, or gaine, or such like, &c. 1 Pet. 5.2. for this will is in some sort constrained, and is not properly and directly carried to the worke of the Ministery, but out of pure love and zeale, Iohn 21.15,16,17.

9. 5. The difference in these qualifications is such, that First, a knowledge of the truth with some dexterity of teaching is necessarily required to the essence of a Minister; because they are the proper foundations of that vocation: but integrity is onely necessary, as a meane to the Well being, though it be necessary by the precept of God, even to the very being of a Minister.

Secondly, concerning the Doctrine, and dexterity, judgement may be given by others; but concerning the inclination of the will, no man beside the party to be called can certainely and alwaies judge.

Thirdly, Doctrine and dexterity cannot suddenly be procured by others: but the will drawing backe through feare, or modesty, may and ought to be excited, and stirred up by exhortations. As for those that can, and are not willing, paines is well spent in the calling them; not so for those that cannot, but would.

Quest. 3. Whether are those which can reade, or recite a Sermon by heart, out of the writings of others, furnished with the necessary gifts of Ministers?

10 A. 1. In no sort. For first, the gift of reading and rehearsing by heart, is not a gift of the Ministery, but a gift of wisdome and knowledge, 1 Cor. 12.8.

11. 2. A Minister must necessarily have a faculty of applying the Word, according to the diversity of hearers, times, places, and other circumstances, with that variety which divers occasions doe require, 2 Tim. 2.15. but this cannot bee done, by reading, or reciting out of the prescript of another.

12. 3. He ought also to be ready to give an account of those things which he teacheth, to any one that asketh, and to
