---
reading: ames-conscience-4.25
page: 67
pdf_page: 243
sortable_pagination_id: 243
---

to convince the gaine-sayers, *Tim 1. 9.* which cannot bee done by reading and reciting.

13. 4. He ought to goe before the Church in those gifts, which are to be effected and sought by al Beleevers, *1 Tim. 4. 13, 14, &c.* but all Beleevers ought to endeavour, that the Word of God might dwell plenteously in them, *Col. 3. 16.*

14. 5. No man can discharge the office, either of an Advocate, or a Phisician, by reciting prescript formes. Now a Minister is a spirituall Advocate and Phisician.

## Quest. 4. Whether it bee lawfull to desire the Ministerie?

15. *A.* 1. To seeke a place in the Ministery, either for lucre, or the profit that it may bring along with it, is plainly to be condemned. For this is to account gaine godlinesse, *1 Tim. 6. 5.*

16. 2. To desire the worke of the Ministery, out of desire and zeale to edifie the Church, and to glorifie God, this is pious and laudable, *1 Cor. 16. 15, 1 Tim. 3. 1.*

17. 3. To offer himselfe to the judgement of others to be tryed and approved for the Ministery, is no way repugnant to the honour of the Ministery.

18. 4. He which hath a good testimony of his fitnesse, for the worke of the Ministery, may without offence of conscience, modestly offer his paines to any Church, *Esa. 6. 8.* for God offers such to the Churches.

19. 5. Yet importunatly to urge his owne calling, and by cunning to procure it, is utterly unfit for one that is rightly disposed to the Ministery, *2 Cor. 2. 16.*

20. 6. By fraud and violence to thrust himselfe upon a Church against their will, is plainly a develish part.

21. 7. So to come to the office of the Ministery, as to a thing subject to buying and selling, this is Symony. Because the office of the Cure of Soules, is the gift of God, which is communicated properly by God alone; and therfore to buy that office is all one in kind, and in the nature of the thing, with that which *Simon* did, *Acts 8.*

22. 8. Simony is committed not onely by a gift from the hand, when money is given to procure such an office, but also by a gift from observance, which is given and yeelded to any
