---
reading: ames-conscience-4.25
page: 68
pdf_page: 244
sortable_pagination_id: 244
---

any for that end: and also by a gift from the tongue, when it is procured by intercession and prayers, so that the worthinesse is not principally regarded.

## Queft. 5. Who are they which have the right and power of calling Ministers?

23. A. 1. The chiefe right of calling is in Christ alone, who is the Head of the Church, the Author of the Ministrie, and the Lord of the Ministers.

24. 2. The delegated right cannot properly be in Diocesan, Bishops, or Patrons, or Magistrates; as such, because Christ who ordained the Ministery, hath prescribed nothing singular concerning those Orders, hath communicated no new right unto them, and hath left his Church well ordered without them.

25. 3. The delegated right belongs to that whole Church, which the Minister that is to be called must serve.

For, first, Ministers are given by Christ to the Church, that by the same ordinary and certaine way, they may bee procured by every Church. But if the vocation should depend upon others, the Church should often be destitute, of a certaine way, of procuring Ministers to it selfe, and so such a Church, should be instituted of Christ, which should not be sufficient in it selfe.

Secondly, If the right of calling were in the power of others, then the Church should not immediatly receive her Ministers from Christ, but from those whose this right was.

Thirdly, otherwise it could not be, that the Church should alwaies freely submit her selfe to her Ministers, which yet in the Ministery is no lesse necessary then in Marriage.

26. 4. This right of Calling doth so in regard of the proprietie remaine in the Church, that it cannot either by the authority of any other be taken away, or by a voluntary grant be lost, or bee wholly committed to the fidelity of another. For the act of the Church is a cause necessarily required to Ecclesiasticall calling.

27. 5. Yet divers actions pertaining to calling may bee commanded to others, and ordinarily ought to be performed by the principall members of the Church, or the Presbyters. And
