---
reading: ames-conscience-4.25
page: 69
pdf_page: 245
sortable_pagination_id: 245
---

And the care that all things be done rightly, belongs to the Magistrate.

Queft. 6. What is the act in which Vocation properly confifts?

28. A. Vocation properly and effentially confifts in election. For firft, that voluntary relation which is betweene the Minifter and people, cannot have any other foundation then voluntary election.

Secondly, a free Church, retaining her liberty, cannot be fubjected to any, but by free election.

Thirdly, all thofe acts which pertaine to vocation, either tend to election, as nomination, prefentation, examination, or depend upon election, or ordination, inftitution, or induction, which is nothing elfe but the complement of election, and a folemne declaration; as the Coronation of a King, or the Inauguration of a Magiftrate, and fo is wont Metonymically, to be ufed, for election, or vocation.

Queft. 7. Where the freedome of election is diminifhed by Bifhops, Magiftrates, Patrons; what kind of Calling is there?

29. A. Although election be not in that manner and degree free as it ought to bee; yet a voluntary confent, as in Marriage, fo in the Miniftery, though procured by unjuft meanes hath the effence of an election and vocation.

Queft. 8. When many are fit, who among them is to bee elected?

30. A. 1. He which is moft fit in the confcience of him that doth elect, well informed, becaufe to doe otherwife were an accepting of perfons, which being difpleafing to God, ought to have no place at all in Divine matters. But this is fo to be underftood: Firft that comparifon be made among thofe which may commodioufly be had.

31. 2. That hee be judged moft fit, who though hee bee fimply and abfolutely inferiour, yet in relation to that Church for which a Minifter is defired, confidering all circumftances is found fitteft.

Queft. 9. Whether a man may bee called to the Miniftery, for fome certaine terme of yeares?

32. A. 1. That this fhould be expreffed, or directly included
