---
reading: ames-conscience-4.25
page: 70
pdf_page: 246
sortable_pagination_id: 246
---

chided in the Calling, is utterly repugnant to the nature of the Ministerie. For first, A Minister doth not properly devote his paines to the Church, but to Christ. Now Christ hath no where revealed his Will concerning a definite law of Ministery.

Secondly, Such a vocation doth diminish the affection and care of a Minister to his people, and of the people againe to him.

Thirdly, It lessens also the dignity of the Ministery, while in shew, at least, it makes it mercenary.

Fourthly, It brings along with it divers dangers, both to Minister and People. For so the Minister may without a just cause be dismissed, and the people may unseasonably be forsaken.

33. 2. Yet that they should be understood implicitely, a power of obtaining an honest dismission upon some condition, the necessity of which, the condition either of the party called, or parties calling, or the Church in generall may cause, there is nothing that absolutely forbids.

## Quest. 10. Whether may one that is rightly called to the Ministery, afterward leave off the Ministery?

34 A. 1 It is not lawfull for any one to attempt this at his owne will.

First, because he is bound to God in that vocation, neither can he without his Commandment forsake his station.

Secondly, he is also bound to the Church, not by an humane, but by a Divine covenant. And he can no more forsake the Church, then be forsaken of it.

35. 2. Yet if such a cause fall out, that makes him unfit for the Ministery, or makes the exercise of it impossible to him, or bring a necessity of sinning upon him in the exercise of it, then by Gods allowance he seems to be loosed from the Ministery.

## Quest. 11. Whether it bee lawfull for a Minister to goe from one Church to another?

36. A. It is one thing to goe from one to another, another thing to be translated or removed. Goe he may not so long as the foundation of his former calling remaines; but removed he may be upon the Judgement of other Churches.
