---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 179a
pdf_page: 231
sortable_pagination_id: 231.1
---

# Cause I.

Gratian. A certain man, having a son, offered him to a very wealthy monastery; pressed by the abbot and the brothers, he paid ten pounds so that his son might be received, the son himself being unaware of this by reason of the privilege of his age. The boy grew up, and through the advancement of years and offices arrived at manhood and the rank of the priesthood. Thereafter, supported by his merits, he was elected bishop, with the intervention of service and paternal entreaties; and money was also given to one of the archbishop’s counselors, and so he was consecrated as a bishop, unaware of his father’s intercession and of the money that had been offered. But as time went on, he ordained some through money, while to others he freely gave the priestly blessing; at last, accused before his metropolitan and convicted, he received a sentence of condemnation against himself. (Q. I.) Here the first question is: is it a sin to buy spiritual things? (Q. II.) Second, should money be demanded for entry into the Church, or if it has been demanded, should it be paid? (Q. III.) Third, is it simony to purchase entry into the Church or prebends? (Q. IV.) Fourth, is this man guilty of the crime which his father committed without his knowledge? (Q. V.) Fifth, is it lawful for him to remain in the Church, or to exercise the ordination which he obtained through his father’s money? (Q. VI.) Sixth, should those who were ordained in ignorance by him, now a simoniac, be cast out or not? (Q. VII.) Seventh, if he renounces his heresy, should he be received back into episcopal dignity or not?

## Question I.

Gratian. I. Part. That buying spiritual things is a sin is proved by the authorities of many. For Pope Leo says:

### C. I. Simoniacs do not bestow the grace they seek to sell.

Grace, if it is not given or received freely, is not grace. But simoniacs do not receive it freely: therefore they do not receive the grace which
