---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 179b
pdf_page: 231
sortable_pagination_id: 231.2
---

chiefly operates in ecclesiastical orders. But if they do receive it, they do not have it; and if they do not have it, they can give it to no one, whether freely or otherwise. What then do they give? Surely what they have. But what do they have? The spirit of falsehood, to be sure. How do we prove this? Because if the spirit of truth (as Truth itself testifies, from whom it proceeds) is received freely, then beyond doubt that spirit is shown to be the spirit of falsehood which is not received freely.

### C. II. Whoever is ordained simoniacally is vainly called a priest.

Likewise, Gregorius to Bishop Siagrius of Autun \[Book VII, Epistle 110\].

Whoever strives to obtain sacred orders through gift and payment is not a priest, but vainly desires merely to be called one.

### C. III. Let him who obtains a church through money be stripped of his honor.

Likewise, from the Register \[of Gregorius\].

If a presbyter obtains a church through money, let him not only be deprived of the church but also stripped of the honor of the priesthood, because no faithful person is ignorant that to sell or buy an altar, tithes, and the Holy Spirit is the simoniacal heresy.

### C. IV.

The same \[Gregorius I, in the said Epistle 110, Book VII\].

The blessing of him who is promoted so as to become a heretic is turned into a curse.

### C. V. He who does not burn vehemently against simoniacs will have his portion with Symon.

The same, in the same.

Whoever is ordained through money is promoted so as to become a heretic. Whoever therefore does not burn vehemently against the simoniacal heresy and the heresy of neophytes, in the place his office demands, let him not doubt that he will share a portion with the one who first committed this heinous outrage.
