---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 180a
pdf_page: 232
sortable_pagination_id: 232.1
---

### C. VI. The condemnation of Symon involves equally the giver and the receiver.

Likewise, Pope Gelasius to the bishops established throughout Lucania.

Those who are found to have purchased sacred dignity, unworthy of it by merit, at a price must be convicted and excluded; those who commit such a crime do not do so without peril, because the condemnation of Symon — which sacred scripture attests — involves equally the giver and the receiver.

### C. VII. He who is ordained simoniacally is condemned by the sentence of anathema.

Likewise, Ambrosius in the Pastoral Book.

Very many are found who wish to purchase the grace of the Holy Spirit through the trafficking of gifts, giving a price that they may receive the height of pontifical order, forgetful of the words of Petrus who said to Symon: “Your money perish with you, because you thought to possess the gift of God with money” \[Acts 8:20\]. Therefore, because this great evil is so common, and has frequently been cut down by the sword of our predecessors, we too apply the burning iron, which still remains, to this cancerous wound, decreeing altogether that whoever henceforth is detected to have offered any payment in order to receive the dignity of a divine gift, shall from that moment know himself condemned under the reproach of anathema, and estranged from participation in the body and blood of Christ, from the time it is established that he has perpetrated this crime execrable to Christ. But if someone becomes his accuser, the one who has obtained this rank by giving gifts shall both be deprived of the honor received and be thrust into a monastery under perpetual penance. Those, moreover, who on this account were recipients of gifts, if they are clerics, shall be punished with the loss of their rank; if they are laymen, they shall be condemned with perpetual anathema.

### C. VIII. A bishop who performs ordination for money is condemned.

Likewise, from the Council of Chalcedon \[Canon 2\].

If any bishop performs an ordination for money,
