---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 180b
pdf_page: 232
sortable_pagination_id: 232.2
---

and reduces to a price the grace of the Holy Spirit, which cannot be sold, and ordains for money a presbyter or deacon, or promotes anyone of those called in the clergy, or even a steward, or defender, or anyone subject to the rule, for the sake of his own most base profit — he who is proved to have attempted this shall be subject to the peril of losing his own rank, and whoever has been so ordained shall gain nothing from this ordination or promotion that was accomplished through trafficking, but shall be estranged from the dignity or office he acquired by money. But if anyone has acted as a go-between in such disgraceful and wicked giving and receiving, if he is a cleric let him fall from his own rank; if a layman, let him be anathematized.

### C. IX. Let him who ordains or is ordained for money be estranged from the priesthood.

Likewise, from the Eighth Synod \[Fourth Council of Constantinople, Canon 5\].

Whoever consecrates anyone for money, or has been consecrated by another \[for money\], let him be estranged from the priesthood.

### C. X. No one is able to be ordained or promoted in the Church of God for money.

Likewise, Pope Calixtus \[I\].

Following the examples of the Holy Fathers and renewing what our office requires, we prohibit by the authority of the apostolic see in every manner that anyone be ordained or promoted for money in the Church of God. But if anyone acquires an ordination or promotion in the Church in this manner, let him be entirely deprived of the dignity so acquired.

### C. XI. On the same.

Likewise, Gregorius Nazianzenus.

There is no doubt that whoever strives to purchase the gift of God for a price can in no way continue or be restored in sacred orders henceforth. Let such a person be cut off from communion in every way. For what else is the purchasing of the gift of the Holy Spirit for a price than a capital crime and the simoniacal heresy, which how detestably it has been avenged in both Testaments
