---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 181b
pdf_page: 233
sortable_pagination_id: 233.2
---

### \[C. XVI.\]

Likewise, concerning Gehazi.

Leprosy quickly follows upon a base reward, and money ill-gotten defiles both body and soul.

§. I. You see that the succession of the heir is condemned by the deed of the author. For the guilt of a ministry that has been sold is inexpiable, and the vengeance of heavenly grace passes to posterity. And so the Moabites and the rest shall not enter into the Church of God until the third and fourth generation \[cf. Deuteronomy 23:3; Exodus 20:5\] — that is, to speak more plainly, until the succession of many generations has abolished the guilt of their forebears. But since those who sinned against God through the error of idolatry appear to have been punished to the fourth generation, the sentence by which the seed of Gehazi is condemned unto eternity seems assuredly harsher, on account of the desire of getting — by prophetic authority — especially since our Lord Jesus Christ through the washing of regeneration has given remission of sins to all. Why then is the seed of Gehazi condemned to eternity, unless it is so that you understand the seed of vices rather than of lineage? For just as those who are children of the promise are reckoned as good seed, so also those who are of error are reckoned as evil seed. For the Jews too are of the devil as their father \[John 8:44\], not by carnal succession, but by crime. Therefore all the covetous, all the greedy, possess the leprosy of Gehazi along with their riches, and with their ill-gotten reward have gathered not so much the means of a patrimony as a treasury of crimes, for eternal punishment and brief enjoyment.

II. Part. Gratian. Since therefore, by the authority of Pope Leo, simoniacs receive nothing but the spirit of falsehood; since, according to Gregorius, the priesthood does not subsist among simoniacs, their blessing is turned into a curse, the anathema of giving and receiving remains upon them, since they are not holy nor constituted in the body of Christ, since they are accursed and can neither sanctify others, nor give or receive the body of Christ, nor bless others; since, according to Ambrosius, they are condemned under the reproach of anathema and estranged from participation in the body and blood of Christ, when gold is received and leprosy is given, when the guilt of a ministry sold is inexpiable; since, according to the Council of Chalcedon, they are judged to profit nothing from such an ordination; since, according to Gelasius, they are involved in the condemnation of Symon; since, according to Gregorius Nazianzenus, they can in no way continue or be restored in sacred orders, they are struck with leprosy by Eliseus, condemned to perdition by Petrus, and driven from the temple by Christ himself: what else can a simoniac confer upon a simoniac in his ordination, except what Innocentius testifies concerning other heretics, saying:
