---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 182a
pdf_page: 234
sortable_pagination_id: 234.1
---

### C. XVII. Those who do not possess the fullness of the Spirit cannot give it.

Those who have lost the fullness of the Spirit that they had received cannot give its plenitude — which operates most powerfully in ordinations — since they have forfeited it through their own faithlessness.

And again:

§. I. He who did not possess the office could not confer the office, nor did the other receive anything, since there was nothing in the giver; rather, he transmitted through the laying on of wicked hands the damnation that he himself possessed.

### C. XVIII. A simoniac through the wicked laying on of hands confers not consecration but damnation.

The same \[Innocentius\], to Rufus and other bishops.

We come to the third question, which, on account of its difficulty, requires a longer disputation. When we say that those ordained by heretics have a wounded head on account of that laying on of hands, a remedy must be applied to that wound so that they may recover health. That health, having followed upon the wound, cannot exist without a scar; and where the remedy of penance is necessary, ordination’s honor cannot there take effect. For as scripture reads, “whoever touches what is unclean shall be unclean” — how, then, shall that be granted to him which cleanness and purity are accustomed to receive?

§. I. But on the other side it is asserted that he who has lost the office cannot confer the office, nor did the other receive anything, since there was nothing in the giver that the recipient could receive. We grant this, and it is certainly true, that he could not give what he did not have. He gave, through the wicked laying on of hands, the very damnation that he possessed; and I cannot see how one who has been made a partner in the damned man’s condition ought to receive the honor of ordination.

§. 2. But it is said that the true and lawful blessing of a legitimate priest removes every defect that had been introduced by a corrupt one. If that is so, then let the sacrilegious be admitted to ordination, and those guilty of all manner of crimes, on the grounds that the blessing of ordination is supposed to remove crimes and defects; let there be no place for penance, because
