---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 182b
pdf_page: 234
sortable_pagination_id: 234.2
---

ordination can confer what prolonged satisfaction has been accustomed to confer. But the law of our church is this: that those coming from the heretics, provided they were baptized among them, receive through the laying on of hands only lay communion, and that none of them be admitted to even the least degree of clerical honor.

III. Pars. Gratian. But the objection is raised: Other heretics deviate from the faith, whereas simoniacs, even if they regard the grace of the Holy Spirit as something to be sold, are nonetheless not alien to the faith, and therefore what is decreed by Innocentius concerning other heretics cannot consistently be understood to apply to them. To this the response is as follows: Simoniacs, even if they appear to hold the faith, are nonetheless subjected to the ruin of unbelief. Hence Ambrosius, writing in Book I of his work on penance, addressed to Novatianus, said:

### C. XIX. Simoniacs do not possess integrity of faith.

Petrus, when Symon, corrupted by his habit of magical arts, supposed that he could purchase through money the grace of Christ given by the laying on of hands and the infusion of the Holy Spirit, said: “You have no lot nor part in this faith, because your heart is not right before God.” \[Acts 8:21\] You see that he condemns this man, who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit with the vanity of magic, by apostolic authority, and the more so because he did not possess the pure conscience of faith.

### C. XX. A simoniac is proven to be an unbeliever.

Likewise Gregorius, in the Register.

Since all avarice is a serving of idols, whoever does not vigilantly guard against it — especially in the conferring of ecclesiastical offices — is subjected to the ruin of unbelief, even if he appears to hold the faith which he neglects.

### C. XXI. The heresy of simoniacs is proven to be more damnable than others.

Likewise from the letter of Tharasius, bishop of Constantinople, sent to Pope Adrianus.

Those who through money laid on hands or received
