---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 183a
pdf_page: 235
sortable_pagination_id: 235.1
---

the laying on of hands — Petrus, the divine apostle, whose throne your holiness holds, deposes them as Symon Magus.

§. 1. For the impious heresy of Macedonius and those around him, who attack the Holy Spirit, is more tolerable. They, in their delusion, acknowledge the Holy Spirit to be a creature and servant of God the Father and the Son; but these men make that same Holy Spirit their own servant. For every master, if he wishes, sells what he has, whether a slave or anything else among his possessions. Likewise, whoever buys something, wishing to be its master, acquires it through the price of money. So too those who engage in this wicked transaction detract from the Holy Spirit, sinning equally with those who blasphemed, saying that Christ cast out demons through Beelzebub \[cf. Matthew 12:24\]; and, to speak more truly, they are compared to Judas the betrayer, who sold Christ to the Jews by occasion of God. Since, therefore, the Holy Spirit is consubstantial with Christ, they will share in the same portion as Judas. And without doubt the grace of the Holy Spirit — that is, the sanctity of priesthood — is not in them. For what they did not receive they do not have. For Petrus said to Symon: “You have no part nor lot in this word, because you thought that the gift of God could be possessed through money.” \[Acts 8:21\]

§. 2. Moreover, the twenty-ninth canon of the holy apostles, and the Acts of the same, and the third and fourth books of Kings, declare entirely alien to the priesthood anyone who has at any time given or received money in any circumstance, whether before the laying on of
