---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 185b
pdf_page: 237
sortable_pagination_id: 237.2
---

it is said through Salomon: “He who offers sacrifice from the substance of the poor is as one who slaughters a son before his father’s eyes \[Sirach 34\].” Let us consider how great the grief of a father is if his son is slaughtered before his eyes, and from this it is easily understood how greatly the grief of God is provoked when a sacrifice from plunder is offered to him. One must therefore be very careful not to commit the sins of the simoniacal heresy under the pretext of charity. For it is one thing to give alms on account of sins, and quite another to commit sins on account of alms.

Et post pauca: §. 3. Therefore, whoever desires to obtain the priesthood not for the pomp of pride but for usefulness, let him first measure his own strength against the burden he is about to undertake, so that if he is unequal to it he may refrain, and let him approach even that which he considers himself sufficient for with fear.

### C. XXVIII. A simoniacal pastor provides no healing to his sheep.

The same \[Gregorius\] to Theodoricus and Theobertus, kings of the Franks.

It is reported that the simoniacal heresy, which first crept against God’s church by diabolical subversion and was struck down and condemned at its very inception by the zeal of apostolic vengeance, is ruling in the territories of your kingdom — whereas in priests it is faith together with life that must be chosen. For if life is lacking, faith has no merit, as James attests when he says: “Faith without works is dead \[James 2\].” For what works can there be for a priest who is convicted of obtaining the honors of so great a sacrament by means of payment?

Et post pauca: §. 1. From this, therefore, not only is a mortal wound inflicted on the souls both of the one who ordains and of the one who is ordained, but also the governance of your excellency is burdened by the fault of your bishops, by whose intercessions it ought rather to have been helped. For if one is judged worthy of the priesthood not on account of merit of conduct but because of an abundance of payments, the consequence is that gravity defends nothing for itself in ecclesiastical honors, nor does industry defend anything for itself, but the profane love of gold obtains everything. And while honor rewards vices, perhaps he who was to be punished is brought in to the place of the one who punishes, and thus priests are judged not to profit but rather to perish. For when the pastor is wounded, who applies medicine to heal the sheep? Or how can he protect the people with the shield of prayer who exposes himself to be struck by the missiles of enemies? Or what fruit is a tree going to produce from itself whose root is infected with a grievous plague? Greater calamity, therefore, is to be feared for those places where such intercessors are brought to a position of
