---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 186b
pdf_page: 238
sortable_pagination_id: 238.2
---

which you hold and administer just as they were held and administered before you departed from it.

### C. XXXII. On the same.

Likewise to the Donatists.

God is present in his sacraments and words, by whomever they are administered, provided their sacraments and words are sound — just as wicked men, for whom these things profit nothing, are perverse in every respect, that is, both inwardly and outwardly.

### \[C. XXXIII.\]

Likewise, Book IV, On Baptism against the Donatists.

Neither outside nor inside can anyone who is of the devil’s party defile in himself or in anyone else the sacrament that belongs to Christ.

### C. XXXIV. Sacraments that are not altered are shown to be common to catholics and heretics.

The same Augustinus to Emeritus.

The sacraments that you have not altered are approved by us just as you hold them, lest in our desire to correct your wickedness we commit a sacrilegious offense against those ministrations that have not been corrupted by your wickedness. Nor had Saul corrupted the anointing he had received, which anointing the devout Dauid repeatedly honored with great reverence.

### C. XXXV. On the same.

The same \[Augustinus\] to the Donatists.

Just as the insincere truly and not insincerely receive \[baptism\], and their baptism is not rejected, so also those things which schismatics and heretics hold in no different a manner and perform in no different a way than the true church — when they come to us, we do not correct these things but rather approve them.

### C. XXXVI. The sacraments are not to be shunned, by whomever they are administered.

The same \[Augustinus\] against Petilianus.

Let no one shun the sacraments of God either in a good man or in a wicked man.

### C. XXXVII. The wickedness of men does not profane the sacraments.

The same \[Augustinus\] in the book On Baptism against the Donatists.

Were not the Sodomites pagans, that is, Gentiles?
