---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 187b
pdf_page: 239
sortable_pagination_id: 239.2
---

and one is bound who does not have peace with the dove, whether he is openly outside or appears to be within.

Gratian. If therefore sacraments cannot be defiled by the unclean in the manner of light, if like a pure stream they pass through stone channels to fertile garden beds, it is clear that simonists hold the sacrament of anointing for themselves unprofitably and harmfully, but administer that same anointing to others profitably and beneficially. Just as the sacraments of heretics are genuine as to form, therefore, so too they are genuine and not empty as to effect.

VI. Pars. But it should be noted that of sacraments, some belong to dignity, others to necessity. Since necessity has no law but itself creates its own law, those sacraments that are necessary for salvation, because they cannot be repeated, since they are genuine, ought not to be taken away or lost, but are permitted to remain valid with penance. Those sacraments, however, that belong to dignity, unless they have been administered worthily — such that worthy persons are advanced worthily by worthy ministers — cease to be dignities, not so that the truth of the sacrament is diminished, but so that the function of administering ceases, whether in respect of place, time, or promotion.

In respect of place, as Leo says to Rusticus, Bishop of Narbonne:

### C. XL. On those who are ordained by pseudo-bishops.

If any have been ordained by pseudo-bishops, such an ordination can be considered valid, provided they remain in those same churches. Otherwise such an ordination is to be considered void.

Gratian. Behold: one ordained by pseudo-bishops, if he departs from the place of his ordination, his ordination is void and he will be without \[right of\] administration.

In respect of time, as Innocentius says concerning those ordained by Bonosus:

### C. XLI. What is conceded out of necessity ceases when that necessity ceases.

What has been established out of the necessity of the time ought, when that necessity ceases, to cease likewise, because legitimate order is one thing, usurpation is another.

Gratian. Therefore one ordained at another time by someone similar to Bonosus will cease from the administration that was permitted out of the necessity of that time.

Likewise in respect of promotion, as Leo says in Letter III to Iulianus of Aquileia:

### C. XLII. Those who return from heretics can be received in their orders without hope of promotion.

If anyone has defiled himself with the contagion of heretical communion,
