---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 188a
pdf_page: 240
sortable_pagination_id: 240.1
---

it counts as a great benefit if, with all hope of advancement removed, he remains in the order in which he is found.

Gratian. Behold: if a cleric communicates with heretics through ordination or any other sacrament, he barely perseveres in his own order, ceasing from advancement. For this sacrament is not like the others. The others are given either to wash away sins — as baptism and penance — or are denied not forever but for a time on account of sins, as the eucharist, which is granted in the moment of death even to one repenting of the most wicked sins. This sacrament alone is denied not only for guilt but also for infamy — even on account of any diminishment in the prerogative of their purity, whether of external or of internal perfection — such that it is refused to bigamists, or to those who have married widows, or to the illiterate, or to those with any bodily defect, yet baptism and the eucharist are not denied to these same persons. Indeed, one who cannot confer this sacrament may still administer all the other sacraments. Hence Leo says to the bishops of Africa:

### C. XLIII. Concerning bishops who consecrate someone they ought not to consecrate.

If any bishops shall have consecrated a priest of a kind that it is not lawful to have, even if they have somehow escaped damage to their own honor, they shall no longer have the right of ordination, nor shall they ever participate in that sacrament which they have conferred unworthily.

Gratian. Behold: though they escape the peril of \[the loss of\] honor and are permitted to administer the other sacraments in a priestly manner, from this one alone they are removed — not only for heresy or any graver offense, but even for negligence. In all these matters it must be carefully noted that the sacrament of priestly promotion is to be given and received more carefully and worthily than all others, because unless it has been conferred in the proper manner, it ceases to be valid to the extent that it has not been rightly completed. For the other sacraments are given to each person for his own sake, and they become for each person what the heart and conscience with which they are received makes them. This sacrament alone is given not only for the recipient’s own sake but for the sake of others, and therefore it must be received with a true heart and a pure conscience as regards oneself, but as regards others, not only without all guilt but also without all infamy — on account of the scandal to the brethren, for whose benefit the priesthood is given, not only that \[priests\] may preside over them but also that they may profit them.

Hence Ieronimus on Michea:

### C. XLIV. Simoniacs are guilty of the faithlessness of those who are scandalized.

Those who, ordaining any of their followers
