---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 189b
pdf_page: 241
sortable_pagination_id: 241.2
---

### C. LI.

Those who receive baptism from heretics are confirmed by the laying on of hands.

Item, Pope Leo to Bishop Nicetas:

Those who received baptism from heretics, not having been baptized before, are to be confirmed by the invocation of the Holy Spirit alone through the laying on of hands, because they received only the form of baptism without the power of sanctification. And this rule, as you know, we proclaim to be observed in all churches: that the washing once undertaken is not to be violated by any repetition, the Apostle saying: “One God, one faith, one baptism,” whose cleansing is not to be profaned by any repetition; but, as we have said, only the sanctification of the Holy Spirit is to be invoked, so that what no one receives from heretics may be obtained from catholic priests.

IX. Part. Gratian. But it must be noted that heretics — such as the Arians and Sabellians, of whom the former confessed an inequality of persons and the latter an indistinction of persons — administered baptism not in the form of the Church but according to their own perversity. §. 1. It is of these in particular that Ambrosius spoke when he said: “The baptism of the faithless does not heal, etc.” — such that they are also to be rebaptized and reordained. Hence it was decreed at the Council of Nicaea:

### C. LII.

Those who return to the Church from the Paulianists and Cataphrygians are to be rebaptized and ordained.

If anyone shall flee to the catholic Church from the Paulianists and Cataphrygians, it is decreed that they must without exception be rebaptized. But if any were clerics among them, provided they have been found blameless and irreproachable, they are to be rebaptized and then also reordained by the bishop of the catholic Church. If, however, upon examination they are found less fit, they must be deposed. Similarly, with respect to deacons and all those found in the same clergy, the same procedure shall be observed.

### C. LIII.

Item, Innocentius to the bishops of Macedonia:

The Paulianists do not baptize in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, whereas the Novatians baptize in those same awesome names; nor has the question of the unity of the divine power — that is, of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit — ever been raised among the latter, etc.
