---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 190b
pdf_page: 242
sortable_pagination_id: 242.2
---

tion, but only the sanctification of the Spirit is to be invoked, so that what no one receives from heretics may be obtained from catholic priests.

X. Part. Gratian. No one who is established in heresy or schism is to be so understood \[as able to confer baptism with its effect\]. But if someone has received baptism in the form of the Church from the hands of heretics with integrity of faith and purity of soul, then that saying of Augustinus is fulfilled: “Water passes through a stone channel to garden beds.” And again: “The spiritual power of the sacrament, etc.”

### C. LVIII.

Even through the wicked, the good are gathered.

Item, Augustinus, on blasphemy against the Holy Spirit:

The Holy Spirit works in the holy Church even in this age, in which it is as though grain is being threshed together with chaff, in such a way that it spurns no one’s true confession and is deceived by no one’s pretense; and thus it flees the reprobate so as to gather the approved even through the ministry of the reprobate.

Gratian. Behold: when baptism is received from heretics along with its power — the administration of which is so necessary that it cannot be repeated even when given by pagans — hence we read in the Ecclesiastical History that Alexander, bishop of Alexandria, while celebrating the feast of Petrus the Martyr, after the completion of the mass sacraments, saw at the seashore a group of boys playing, imitating, as is the custom, a bishop and performing the things customarily done in church. He immediately ordered them brought to him and questioned them about what they had done. They set forth the full order of events and confessed that some catechumens had been baptized by a boy named Athanasius, who had acted as their pretend bishop. When from their answers he saw that everything was consistent with the rite of our religion, he determined that the baptism that had been administered with the full \[baptismal\] questions and answers should not be repeated, but that what it is the custom of priests to complete \[by confirmation\] should be supplied. On this same point Ysidorus also says:

### C. LIX.

Concerning those who are ordained through ignorance before they are baptized.

If anyone is ordained through ignorance before being baptized, those whom he has baptized must be rebaptized, and he himself is not to be ordained further. But the Roman Pontiff does not judge by the person who baptizes, but believes that the Spirit of God supplies the grace of baptism, even if the one who baptizes is a pagan.

\[PALEA.

### C. LX.

From the Council at Compiègne:

If a priest who has been ordained discovers that he has not been baptized, he is to be baptized and ordained again.\]
