---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 191b
pdf_page: 243
sortable_pagination_id: 243.2
---

### C. LXVII.

It is not lawful to pray either with heretics or with schismatics.

Also from the Council of Pope Martinus:

It is not lawful for clerics or laity to receive blessings \[eulogias\] from heretics, since they are curses rather than blessings; nor is it lawful to pray either with heretics or with schismatics.

### C. LXVIII.

Outside the Church there are no true sacrifices.

Also Leo to Anatholius, Bishop of Constantinople:

In the Church of God, which is the body of Christ, neither are priesthoods valid nor are sacrifices true in any other way than when the true high priest reconciles us in the proper nature of his being.

### C. LXIX.

The divine sacraments withdraw themselves from the hands of the impious.

The same, to the Emperor Leo:

It is manifest that through the most cruel and utterly insane madness all the light of the heavenly sacraments has been extinguished in the Alexandrian see. The offering of sacrifice has been intercepted, the sanctification of chrism has ceased, and from the parricide hands of the impious all the mysteries have withdrawn themselves.

### C. LXX.

Sacraments can be administered outside the Church, but cannot confer salvation.

Also the blessed martyr Ciprianus in his letter against heretics.

Whoever, he says, has departed from the Church through heretical presumption, is condemned by himself. With such a person, according to the Apostle, we ought not even to eat. This is illustrated in the book of Kings, where, when the man of God was sent to Ieroboam to rebuke his sins and foretell future punishment, he was forbidden to eat bread or drink water with him. Because he did not observe this, divine judgment overtook him on his return, and he perished on the road by the bite of a lion. §. 1. Should anyone claim that the sacrament of salvation and heavenly grace can be shared with heretics, with whom we ought not to share even earthly food or worldly drink? It is clear that oil, with which the baptized are anointed, cannot be sanctified among them, nor can the Eucharist be celebrated, where there is no hope and faith is false, where everything is done through falsehood. For the heretic, in the manner of apes who, not being human, imitate the human form, claims for himself the appearance, authority, and truth of the catholic Church, while not being in the Church himself. He blesses when he is cursed by God; he promises life while himself dead; he invokes God while blaspheming; he administers the priesthood as one unholy; he sets up an altar as a sacrilegious person. To all these evils is added this further wickedness: that the high priest of the devil dares
