---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 192a
pdf_page: 244
sortable_pagination_id: 244.1
---

to celebrate the Eucharist, since the oblation cannot be sanctified where the Holy Spirit is not present, nor can the Lord profit anyone through the prayers and supplications of one who has violated God in his very person. For if those who violate the Church are reckoned as pagans and publicans, far more must those who are rebellious and hostile, who fabricate false altars, unlawful priesthoods, sacrilegious sacrifices, and every manner of counterfeit, be necessarily counted among the pagans and publicans — all of whom have clearly withdrawn from the charity and unity of the catholic Church. Therefore everything that heretics do is carnal, empty, and false, so that nothing of what they have done ought to be approved by us. What is boasted in the name of Christ is not straightway to be received and accepted, but \[only\] what is done in the truth of Christ. For how can those who work against God, attempting what is not lawful for them, accomplish through unlawful efforts what they attempt, or obtain anything from God?

§. 2. Therefore, those who give support to heretics and schismatics are proved by divine judgment to be destined to be not only leaders and instigators of their crimes and punishments, but also participants \[in them\], unless they have separated themselves from communion with the wicked — as the Lord commands through Moses: “Separate yourselves from the tents of these most obstinate men, and touch nothing of all that belongs to them, lest you perish together in their sins.” And what the Lord had threatened through Moses he fulfilled, so that whoever had not separated himself from Chore, and Dathan, and Abiron immediately paid the penalty for impious communion. So also the Holy Spirit testifies through the prophet Osee, saying: “Their sacrifices are like the bread of mourning; all who eat of them shall be defiled” — teaching and showing, that is, that all who have been contaminated by their sin are equally joined with the perpetrators in punishment.

### C. LXXI.

True sacrifices are celebrated only in the faith of the Church.

Also Augustinus:

Outside the catholic Church there is no place for true sacrifice.

Also Gregorius in the third book of the Dialogues says of King Ermenigild, son of Leouigild:

### C. LXXII.

Communion is not to be received from the hands of heretics.

When the day of the Paschal feast arrived, his faithless father sent an Arian bishop in the silence of the dead of night so that he might receive from his hand the communion of sacrilegious consecration, and thereby merit a return to his father’s favor. But the man dedicated to God reproached the Arian bishop as he came, as was right, and repelled his faithlessness with fitting rebukes.
