---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 193a
pdf_page: 245
sortable_pagination_id: 245.1
---

sanctifies. Therefore I ask you: either grant him the license to offer sacrifice whose baptism you approve, or reject the baptism of him whom you do not think to be a priest. For it cannot be that he who is holy in baptism should be a sinner at the altar.

Gratian. But this must be understood of a sinful Catholic only, not of a heretic. Whatever the \[sinful Catholic\] does in the exercise of his office with faith, even though he is unworthy, is nonetheless believed to be valid through the cooperation of divine grace. Otherwise, if it were understood as said of heretics, \[Hieronymus\] would be contradicting himself, since he says in Hosea: “Their sacrifices, etc.” And elsewhere, in the person of the Lord:

### C. LXXVI.

God curses the blessings of heretics.

“I will curse your blessings”: that is, whatever is blessed by you will be cursed through me.

XI. Part. Gratian. This, therefore, must be understood of the heretic; but that passage to the Luciferian \[must be understood\] of the sinful member of the Church. Concerning whom Augustinus says in the book On the Body of the Lord:

### C. LXXVII.

Good and evil priests alike confect the body of Christ.

Within the catholic Church, in the ministry of the body and blood of the Lord, nothing greater is accomplished by a good priest, nothing lesser by an evil one, because the sacrament is effected not by the merit of the one who consecrates, but by the word of the creator and the power of the Holy Spirit. For if it depended on the merit of the priest, it would in no way pertain to Christ. But as it is, just as it is he himself who baptizes, so it is he himself who through the Holy Spirit makes this his flesh and transforms it into blood. For it must be believed that the sacraments are confected by the words of Christ. What is first created by his command is assuredly recreated unto something better by his word.

### C. LXXVIII.

On the same.

The same, in book II against the letter of Parmenianus:

All sacraments, while they harm those who handle them unworthily, nonetheless profit through them those who receive them worthily — as also the word of God. Hence it is said: “Do what they say, but do not do what they do.”
