---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 193b
pdf_page: 245
sortable_pagination_id: 245.2
---

### C. LXXIX.

On those who make evil use of holy things.

The same, in a tractate on the Letter of John.

Saul the evil king prophesied even while he was persecuting the holy David. Therefore let those not boast who perhaps possess a holy gift of God without charity, but let them consider what account they will render to God, who make unholy use of holy things. These will be among those who say at the judgment: “We prophesied in your name.” To whom it will not be said: You lie — but: “I do not know you, etc.”

Gratian. They must therefore be said to have had the spirit of prophecy, but not the merit \[that comes with it\].

### C. LXXX.

A person is not so much sanctified by his offerings as he is polluted by his sins.

Also Ieronimus in Haggai.

O prophet, who, having merely built an altar while my house lies in ruins, offer me victims upon the altar and think yourself sanctified by its sacrifices — know this: what is offered at the altar is indeed holy, but you are not so much sanctified by the offerings as you are defiled by your dead works.

### C. LXXXI.

A word is spoken against the Holy Spirit when one never returns from dispersion.

Also Augustinus in the book On the Words of the Lord:

Thus it comes about that a word is spoken against the Holy Spirit, when one never comes from dispersion to the congregation, which receives the Holy Spirit for the remission of sins. To this congregation, even through an evil cleric — but nonetheless a catholic minister, reprobate and false — if someone has come with a sincere heart, the Holy Spirit works in him the remission of sins, who works in the holy Church in such a way that he flees the reprobate, and yet through their ministry gathers the righteous.

### C. LXXXII.

Sins are remitted not by the merits of men but by the power of the Holy Spirit.

The same, in a sermon on the remission of sins.

So that the Lord might clearly show that sins are forgiven by the Holy Spirit, which he gave to his faithful, and not by the merits of men, in a certain place he says thus: “Receive the Holy Spi-
