---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 194a
pdf_page: 246
sortable_pagination_id: 246.1
---

the Holy Spirit;” and he immediately added: “If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them” — that is, the Spirit forgives, not you. Accordingly, just as one whom a priest expels from the church is nonetheless outside the church, and outside the body whose head is Christ, if the doorkeeper does not open to him; so too one is not therefore outside the church and not part of the body, if he is compelled to be outside by the prejudice of a pastor.

### C. LXXXIII.

It is not the merits of persons but the offices of priests that the Lord regards.

Item, Ambrosius, On the Sacraments.

Since scripture attests that fire descended from heaven at the prayers of Jeroboam, and again that at the prayer of Elijah fire was sent to consume the sacrifices, it is given to be understood that God does not regard the merits of persons but the offices of priests. §. 1. That visible fire was sent so that they might believe; for us, invisible \[fire\] works, who believe. §. 2. Believe, therefore, that the Lord Jesus is present when invoked by the prayers of priests, who said: “Where two or three are gathered, there I am in the midst of them.”

### C. LXXXIV.

It is not the merits of priests but divine power that sanctifies the sacraments.

Item, Pope Gregorius.

Many secular persons, when they scrutinize the lives of priests more than their own, fall into the great crime of contempt for divine sacraments. For having eyes wounded by a great beam, and neglecting it, they observe the thin speck in the eyes of others; and while they hasten carelessly to pull it out, they fall into the pit of error, giving too little consideration to the fact that the life of priests would not harm them, if they themselves would humbly lend an ear to the good admonitions of priests. But while, after the manner of hypocrites, they judge the reputation of those others rather than their own life or life’s negligences, they despise holy warnings and spiritual gifts. Hence it comes about that they not only reject what is said by them, but (what is worse) they also despise divine mysteries, so that they refuse to receive communion of the body and blood of our Lord Jesus Christ when administered through the ministry of those whose life appears ignoble in their eyes, thinking that it is less sanctified if it is performed by the office of men whose life seems dishonorable to them. §. 1. Alas, into how great a snare do they fall, believing that divine and hidden mysteries can be made more holy by some \[ministers\] than by others, when one and the same Holy Spirit, diffused throughout the whole world in the church, incomprehensibly sanctifies those mysteries both secretly and invisibly through working, and blesses them through blessing. §. 2. A mystery, therefore, brothers, is so called
