---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 194b
pdf_page: 246
sortable_pagination_id: 246.2
---

because it has a secret and hidden dispensation; a sacrifice, however, is so called as if “made sacred” \[*sacrum factum*\], because it is consecrated for us by a mystical prayer in memory of the Lord’s passion. §. 3. A sacrament exists in some celebration when a deed is performed in such a way that we understand it to signify something that must be received in a holy manner. The sacraments are: baptism, chrism, body and blood; and these are called sacraments because, beneath the covering of corporeal things, divine power secretly works the salvation of those same sacraments. Hence sacraments are so called from secret powers or from sacred things. They are fruitfully performed within the church because the Holy Spirit, dwelling therein, secretly works the same effect of the sacraments. The sacrament of that bread and chalice is called eucharist in Greek, and is interpreted in Latin as “good grace.” And what is better than the body and blood of Christ? §. 4. Whether, therefore, it is dispensed within the church through good or through bad ministers, it is nonetheless sacred, because the Holy Spirit mystically vivifies it, who once appeared in visible works in the apostolic age. Nor are \[the sacraments\] enlarged by the merits of good dispensers, nor diminished by those of the wicked, because “neither he who plants is anything, nor he who waters, but God who gives the growth.” This must be understood and held concerning the body and blood of our Lord Jesus Christ, and likewise concerning baptism and chrism, because divine power works in them more secretly, and this power or potency belongs to the divine alone, not to human efficacy. We pollute the bread — that is, the body of Christ — when we approach the altar unworthily and, being defiled, drink the pure blood. And below: §. 5. I will curse your blessings — that is, the things you now possess through my blessings — or, whatever is blessed by you; or because they do not bless the holy from a true heart; or because those who act wickedly are blessed by them, and they flatter sinners, so long as they are wealthy.

### C. LXXXV.

We ought to consider not the life of priests but what they teach and administer.

Item, Pope Fabianus, to the Eastern Bishops:

You have indicated, moreover, that many persons pay attention to the fact that many in the ecclesiastical offices themselves do not live in a manner consistent with the sermons and sacraments that are administered to the people through them. O wretched people, who in looking upon these \[priests\] forget Christ! — who predicted long before that one ought rather to obey the law of God than to think those worthy of imitation who do not practice what they say; and \[Christ\], tolerating his own betrayer until the end, even sent him to preach the gospel along with the others.
