---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 195a
pdf_page: 247
sortable_pagination_id: 247.1
---

For the apostles did not have such a custom, nor did they teach that it should be had.

### C. LXXXVI.

On the same.

Item, Pope Nicolaus, to Emperor Michael:

You must take great care to consider not what kind of priests of the Lord \[they are\], but what they say about the Lord; nor must you attend, in the case of the vicars of blessed Peter the Apostle, to what they are, but to what they busy themselves with for the correction of churches and for your salvation. Nor will you call them inferior to the scribes and Pharisees sitting upon the chair of Moses, concerning whom the Lord commanded, saying: “Whatever they tell you, do; but do not act according to their works.” Therefore, emperor, consider: if he said those were to be heard who sat upon the chair of Moses, how much more do you think those who reside upon the chair of Peter ought to be obeyed?

### C. LXXXVII.

The uncleanness of priests does not pollute the sacrament.

Item, Augustinus, Against Petilianus:

The Lord declared, in the case of a single assembly of people receiving the same sacraments, that the uncleanness of some does not harm the clean. §. 1. Petilianus said: But if some person commits to memory the formulae of a priest, is he therefore a priest because he proclaims aloud the formula of a priest with a sacrilegious mouth? Augustinus replied: You say this as though we were now asking who is a true priest, and not what true baptism is. For a person to be a true priest, he must be clothed not only with the sacrament but also with justice, as it is written: “Let your priests be clothed with justice.” But one who is a priest by sacrament alone, as was the high priest Caiaphas — a persecutor of the one and most true priest — though he himself is not truthful, that which he gives is nonetheless true, if he gives not his own but God’s. Item §. 2. “Cretans, evil beasts, sluggish in heart.” If, therefore, the Apostle himself attested to the testimony of some unknown foreigner because he found it to be true, why do we not, wherever we find what is Christ’s and true — even if the one in whom it is found is perverse and deceitful — distinguish the truth, which he holds not as his own but as Christ’s, from the vice which the man has; and say: this sacrament is true, just as he said: “This testimony is true”? Do we thereby say: the man himself is also truthful, because we say: this sacrament is true? §. 3. But you must inevitably always err, as long as you violate God’s sacraments on account of human vices; or \[you err\] in thinking that we, because we are unwilling to violate God’s sacraments in you, also take upon ourselves the sacrilege of your schism.
