---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 195b
pdf_page: 247
sortable_pagination_id: 247.2
---

Item §. 4. The purity of baptism is therefore entirely distinct from the purity or impurity of the conscience of either the giver or the receiver. Item §. 5. Remember that the conduct of wicked men does no harm to God’s sacraments, so as to make them either non-existent or less holy. Item §. 6. If Saul did not possess the holiness of the sacrament, what was it that David venerated in him? But if \[Saul\] had innocence, why did he persecute an innocent man \[David\]? For \[David\] honored \[Saul\] while he lived and avenged him when slain, on account of the anointing of the sacrament. And because he cut off a piece of his garment, he was struck with remorse and trembled. See: Saul did not have innocence, yet he had holiness — not of his own life (for this cannot exist without innocence), but of God’s sacrament, which is holy even in wicked people. Item §. 7. We say that each person’s sacrifice is such as is the one who approaches to offer it, and such as is the one who approaches to receive it; and that those who approach it in the same disposition as those \[offering\] eat of the sacrifices of such people. And so if a wicked person offers to God and a good person receives from it, to each it is according to what each person shall have been, because this too is written: “All things are pure to the pure.” By this true and catholic statement, you also were not polluted by Optatus’s sacrifice, if his deeds displeased you. For certainly the bread of that man was a bread of mourning, under whose iniquities all Africa mourned; but the evil of your schism makes the bread of mourning common to you all. Item §. 8. Thanks be to God, for at last you have confessed that the name of Christ, invoked even by sinners, can avail for the salvation of others. Hence understand that, when the name of Christ is invoked, another’s sins do not harm the salvation of others.

### C. LXXXVIII.

Even through a wicked minister the gifts of God reach those who receive with faith.

Idem, on the Psalms.

What has Christ done to you, who with such patience endured his betrayer — even giving him the first eucharist, prepared by his own hands and commended by his own mouth, just as to the other apostles? What has Christ done to you, who sent this same betrayer of his — whom he named a devil, who before the Lord’s betrayal had not even been able to keep faith with the Lord’s purse — along with the other disciples to preach the kingdom of heaven, in order to demonstrate that the gifts of God reach those who receive with faith, even if the one through whom they receive is such as Iudas was?

### C. LXXXIX.

The malice of a bishop does not harm the sacraments.

Item, Gregorius.

The malice of a bishop does not harm either the baptism of an infant or the consecration of a church, because baptism is given by God, not by man; and so too the eucharist and other things,
