---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 199a
pdf_page: 251
sortable_pagination_id: 251.1
---

offers fine flour is as one who offers swine’s blood; and he who offers incense in remembrance is as a blasphemer.

§. 1. Anyone who offers sacrifice anywhere with such a heart or deeds as to deserve to hear this brings destruction upon himself — not upon those good persons who receive the same sacraments from them, who according to the prophet Ezechiel groan and mourn over the sins and iniquities that are committed in their midst, even if they do not separate themselves from them bodily.

§. 2. The sacrifices of the impious harm those who offer them impiously. For it is one and the same sacrifice on account of the name of the Lord which is invoked there, and it is always holy; and it becomes such to each person as the heart with which he approaches to receive it: “For he who eats and drinks unworthily eats and drinks judgment to himself” — not to others, but to himself.

§. 3. We advise this to be understood in nearly all questions of this kind: namely, that all sacraments, while they harm those who handle them unworthily, nevertheless through them benefit those who receive them worthily.

§. 4. The Holy Spirit is present in the leader or minister of the Church in such a way that, if he is not a hypocrite, the Spirit works through him, and \[works\] his reward toward eternal salvation and the regeneration or edification of those who are either consecrated or evangelized through him. But if he is a hypocrite — since it is most truly written: “The Holy Spirit of discipline will flee from the hypocrite” — the Spirit is indeed absent for his salvation and withdraws from his thoughts that are without understanding, yet does not abandon his ministry, through which it works the salvation of others.

Gratianus. It is established therefore, as Innocentius says, that concerning the other heretics, those ordained by simonists through the corrupt laying on of hands have a head wounded by simony. §. 1. But it is objected that in the ordination of simonists the only thing found blameworthy is that the grace of the Holy Spirit is supposed to be brought under a price, while in all other respects the form of the sacraments is kept intact. When, therefore, the illicit usurpation of the sacrament has been corrected through penance, so that the grace of the Holy Spirit is regarded as gratuitous and not for sale, the full effect of the anointing ought to be present; indeed, even if penance does not follow, the person is to be regarded as truly consecrated — albeit simoniacally — just as those who in former times were admitted to the regeneration of holy baptism and the participation in holy communion only upon payment of a price were nevertheless regarded as truly baptized and as participants in holy communion, though simoniacally. For this alone has been established by the sacred canons: that henceforth the sacraments of Christ are not to be distributed simoniacally.
