---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 199b
pdf_page: 251
sortable_pagination_id: 251.2
---

### C. XCIX. No prices are to be demanded from those to be baptized or confirmed.

Priests shall fix no prices for the faithful who are to be baptized or confirmed, nor shall they seek to vex the newly born with any exactions imposed upon them, since we are commanded to give freely what we have freely received. And therefore let them make no effort to exact anything from the aforementioned, lest, deterred either by the compulsion of poverty or turned away by indignation, they rightly despise the causes of their redemption — knowing for certain that those who are found to have committed what is forbidden, or who have not rather corrected their offenses of their own accord, incur peril to their own honor.

### C. C. No price is to be exacted from one receiving the grace of communion.

From the Sixth Synod \[the Quinisext Council, 692\].

No bishop, priest, or deacon who dispenses holy communion shall exact any price from one receiving the grace of communion. For grace is not sold, nor do we give the grace of the Holy Spirit for a price, but we grant the worthy to share in the gift without defrauding them. If any one of those counted among the clergy shall demand some price from the one to whom he dispenses holy communion, let him be deposed as an imitator of simoniacal fraud.

### C. CI. The gifts of invisible grace are not to be equated with monetary gain.

From the Eleventh Council of Toledo \[653\].

Whatever is bestowed by the consolation of invisible grace must never at all be sold for monetary gain or for any rewards whatsoever, the Lord saying: “What you have received freely, give freely.” And therefore whoever henceforth, being established in ecclesiastical order, shall have received any prices or rewards (except those voluntarily offered) for baptizing or confirming the faithful, for chrism, or for the promotion of ranks, through such ambition — if indeed any such thing shall have been perpetrated by his subordinates with the knowledge of the local bishop, that same bishop shall be subject to two months of excommunication for concealing the evil through negligence and failing to apply the necessary correction.
