---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 200a
pdf_page: 252
sortable_pagination_id: 252.1
---

But if any of his subordinates, without the bishop’s knowledge, believed that something from the aforesaid provisions was owed to him: if he is a priest, let him be punished with four months of excommunication; if a deacon, three months; a subdeacon or cleric who serves these appetites, however, is to be punished with appropriate penalty and due excommunication.

### C. CII. Nothing shall be demanded by bishops for the balsam placed in the chrism.

From the Second Council of Braga.

It is our pleasure that no bishop shall demand anything further for the small quantity of balsam which, once blessed, is distributed to the churches for the sacrament of baptism, since each bishop customarily demands a tremiss \[a small gold coin\] for it — lest what is consecrated through the invocation of the Holy Spirit for the salvation of souls be damnably sold by us, as Simon Magus wished to buy the gift of God with money.

### C. CIII. Nothing shall be demanded from those who bring their infants to be baptized.

From the same.

It is our pleasure that each bishop make provision throughout his churches that, if those who offer their infants for baptism freely offer something of their own accord and according to their vow, it shall be received from them. But if, through the necessity of poverty, they have nothing to offer, no pledge shall be violently taken from them by the clergy. For many poor people, fearing this, withhold their children from baptism; and if, while they are delayed, the children should depart this life without the grace of baptism, it is necessary that their perdition be required of those who, fearing the plundering of the clergy, withdrew themselves from the grace of baptism.

### C. CIV. Let no one compel those being baptized to put coins in the basin.

From the Council of Elvira.

It is our pleasure to correct the practice whereby those being baptized (as was customary) put coins into the basin, lest the priest appear to be selling for a price what he received for free. Nor shall their feet be washed by priests or clerics.

### C. CV. Nothing shall be demanded for the reception of chrism or baptism.

From the Council of Tribur.

It has been reported that in certain places coins are given for the reception of chrism, and likewise for baptism and communion. The holy synod has condemned this as the heresy of simony, anathematized it, and has decreed that henceforth nothing shall be demanded for ordination, for chrism, for baptism, for bai-
