---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 201a
pdf_page: 253
sortable_pagination_id: 253.1
---

the Church, we mercifully sustain their ordinations, provided that their life is commended as praiseworthy. But those who knowingly permitted themselves to be consecrated (indeed, execrated) by simoniacs — their consecration we declare utterly void.

### C. CIX. Concerning one who is ordained by a man he knows to be a simoniac.

Nicolaus the Younger. \[The same, Alexander II.\]

We further decree that if anyone hereafter permits himself to be consecrated by one he does not doubt to be a simoniac, both the consecrator and the consecrated shall undergo the same sentence of condemnation; both shall be deposed and do penance, and shall remain deprived of their proper dignity.

### C. CX. No mercy is to be shown to simoniacs in preserving their dignity.

The same.

We have decreed that no mercy is to be shown to simoniacs in preserving their dignity; but in accordance with the sanction of the canons and the decrees of the holy Fathers, we utterly condemn them and by apostolic authority ordain that they are to be deposed.

Gratianus. This is to be understood with the exception of one who was violently coerced. For concerning those who were violently ordained even by heretics, Innocentius writes to the Bishops of Macedonia:

### C. CXI. Concerning those who are dragged unwillingly to ordination by heretics.

It is established that many, having suffered violence and been unwillingly coerced and resisting, were ordained by heretics; but a person of this kind, if after such an ordination he took no part when they celebrated the sacraments, if he did not share in their communion, if he immediately upon their departure renounced their wicked assembly and returned to the Church — such a person can have some color of excuse. But those who returned after a month or more, since they recognize that they were ordained by heretics, and who received nothing from them, are guilty of usurped dignity.

Gratianus. Such persons are often restored by the laying on of hands of the Catholic Church, for the sake of mercy, together with satisfaction and the remedy of penance; but we read of the condemnation of simoniacs and of those who consented to them, while we do not read of an authoritative remedy expressly prescribed for this heresy — except that, as was practiced in the case of the Novatians or the Donatists, lesser heretics after all, not canonically but for the sake of mercy, so also we gather that the same can be done for these, because in all other respects they hold ortho-
