---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 201b
pdf_page: 253
sortable_pagination_id: 253.2
---

-dox faith, save only that they believe the Holy Spirit is for sale. And, as the blessed Augustinus says, when heretics return \[to the Church\], let them be healed in that part whereby they cut themselves off from the Church, while in that part whereby they adhered \[to the faith\] they are to be acknowledged.

Hence also Leo writes to Januarius, Bishop of Aquileia:

### C. CXII. Those who return from heresy to the Church shall remain in whatever rank they are found, as a benefit.

Every cleric of whatever rank who, abandoning the Catholic unity, has defiled himself by contact with heretical or schismatic communion shall, if he returns to the Church with lawful satisfaction and condemnation of his error, count it a great benefit if — all hope of promotion taken away — he remain in the rank in which he is found.

Gratianus. Concerning those, however, who are ordained simoniacally by non-simoniacs (such as those who, by giving money to an archdeacon or to the bishop’s counselors without the bishop’s knowledge, bring it about that they receive sacred orders from his hand) — Gregorius VII writes:

### C. CXIII. Ordinations that take place simoniacally are judged to be false.

We judge to be false those ordinations that take place with the intervention of payment, or of petitions, or of service rendered to some person with that intention, or that are not performed by the common consent of clergy and people according to canonical rules and are not approved by those to whom consecration belongs — because those who are ordained in such a manner do not enter through the door, that is, through Christ, but, as the Truth itself testifies, they are thieves and robbers.

XIV. Part. Gratianus. Since simony is thus noted in this canon under three forms, it is necessary to consider in how many ways payment is given in this heresy. The blessed Gregorius explains this clearly in his commentary on the Gospels, saying:

### C. CXIV. Concerning the multiple kinds of simoniacs.

There are some who accept no monetary reward for an ordination, yet bestow sacred orders for human favor, and from this very generosity seek only the recompense of praise. These men assuredly do not give freely what they freely received, because from the office of sanctity they confer they seek the coin of approbation. Hence, when the Prophet was describing a just man, he well said: “He who shakes his hands free from every gift.” He did not say merely from a gift, but:
