---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 202a
pdf_page: 254
sortable_pagination_id: 254.1
---

“from every gift” — because one kind of gift is a gift of service, another a gift of the hand, another a gift of the tongue. A gift of service is service improperly rendered. A gift of the hand is money; a gift of the tongue is favor. He who bestows sacred orders therefore shakes his hands free from every gift when, in divine matters, he seeks not only no money but not even human favor.

### C. CXV. He who comes to sacred orders by any kind of gift whatsoever will find eternal damnation.

The same, in the Register.

If anyone — not distinguished by holy conduct, nor called by clergy and people, nor compelled by their persistent urging — impudently received the priesthood of Christ, that is, episcopal or sacerdotal dignity, already polluted by some crime, through the unjust love of his heart, or through the sordid petitions of his lips, or through attendance, or through manual service, or through a fraudulent little gift, relying not on the profit of souls but on the greed of vainglory — and has not voluntarily relinquished it in his lifetime, and has not been found by a harsh death in penitence — he will beyond doubt perish eternally.

### C. CXVI. Nothing whatsoever shall be received for ordinations.

Hence Gregorius writes to Iohannes, Bishop of Corinth.

We have decreed under strict prohibition that anything be received for ordinations. You must therefore neither consent to nor permit any persons to be brought to sacred orders through gift, through favor, or through the petition of any persons.

### C. CXVII. Let no one accede to sacred orders through payment, favor, or petition.

The same, to all the Bishops established throughout the province of Hellas.

From those who told me I learned that in those parts no one attains sacred orders without the giving of a benefit. If this is so, I say weeping, I announce with groaning, that when the sacerdotal order is inwardly perishing it cannot long stand outwardly either. We know indeed from the Gospel what our Redeemer did in his own person — that entering the Temple he overturned the chairs of those selling doves. For to sell doves is to receive temporal benefit for the Holy Spirit, whom almighty God bestows upon men through the laying on of hands, the Spirit being consubstantial with him. From this evil, as I said before, it is believed to have already come about that those who presumed to sell doves in the Temple of God have had their chairs overturned, by the judgment of God. §. 1. This error is propagated among subordinates with increase. For when any person is led to sacred orders, in the very
