---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 202b
pdf_page: 254
sortable_pagination_id: 254.2
---

root of his advancement he is already corrupted, and is the more ready to sell to others what he has bought. And where is what is written: “You have received freely, give freely?” And since it was against the holy Church that the simoniacal heresy first arose, why is it not weighed, why is it not seen, that one who ordains another for a price, in advancing him, acts to make him a heretic? We therefore urge that none of you henceforth permit this to be done, nor venture to advance anyone to sacred orders through the favor or petition of anyone, unless he whose quality of life and conduct shows him to be worthy of it. For if we learn that this has been done again, know that it will be restrained with strict canonical punishment.

### C. CXVIII. Let no one attain to episcopal honor through ambition.

Symmachus to Caesarius.

Let no one therefore be permitted to attain to episcopal honor through ambition. For when this offense is censured in lay society, who can doubt that it brings reproach upon the religious and those who serve God?

### C. CXIX. On the same.

Gregorius to Bishop Adeodatus.

Be therefore especially diligent in the matter of ordination, and admit to sacred orders only those who are more advanced in age and blameless in conduct. First examine the life and character of those who are to be placed in sacred orders, and let neither the power nor the petition of any persons whatever steal upon you \[and prevent you\] from being able to present worthy candidates for this office. When therefore it is necessary to deliberate about these matters, bring as participants in your counsel men of gravity and experience, and weigh the matter together with them by common deliberation.

### C. CXX. Let no one be promoted to sacred orders through favor or through purchase.

The same, to Bishop Columbus.

Boys shall by no means be admitted to sacred orders, lest they fall all the more dangerously the more hastily they hasten to climb to higher things. Let there be no purchase in ordination; let the power or petition of persons avail nothing against what we prohibit. For beyond doubt God is offended if anyone is advanced to sacred orders not by merit but by favor — God forbid — or by purchase.

Gratianus. On the contrary, the same Gregorius is recorded as having ordained, at the request of certain petitioners, one as an acolyte and another as a deacon, as he himself writes to Bishop Petrus of Corsica, among other matters:
