---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 203b
pdf_page: 255
sortable_pagination_id: 255.2
---

For Pascalis II says:

### C. CXXV. Those who do not permit churches to be regularly ordained are to be judged as sacrilegious.

There are certain persons who, whether by violence or by influence, do not permit churches to be regularly ordained. We decree that these too are to be judged as sacrilegious.

### [C. CXXVI.]

From book IX of the Code, under the Lex Iulia on extortion \[*de repetundis*\], Emperors Gratianus, Valentinianus, and Theodosius.

We command and urge that if any member of the honorable class, the curials, the landowners, or even the tenant farmers, has been subjected to extortion by a judge of any rank for any reason whatsoever; if anyone knows that a judicial sentence has been for sale; if anyone \[knows that\] a penalty has been remitted for a price or imposed through the vice of greed; if anyone, finally, is able to demonstrate on any grounds that a judge has acted corruptly — let him come forward while that judge is still in office or after he has left office, bring the charge, and prove it when brought; having proved it, he shall carry off both victory and glory.

### [C. CXXVII.]

Likewise from the Digest, book III, title on calumniators \[*de calumpniatoribus*\], Ulpianus, book X on the Edict.

Against one who is said to have received money in order to bring or to refrain from bringing a vexatious suit, an action in factum for quadruple the amount of money said to have been received lies within a year; after a year, \[the action\] lies for a single amount.

### [C. CXXVIII.]

Ibid., book XLVII, title on extortion \[*de concussione*\]. Marcellus, book I on public proceedings.

Extortion \[*concussio*\] is not a public criminal proceeding. But if a person received money because he threatened to bring a criminal charge, there can be a public proceeding under the senatus consulta, by which those who have conspired to accuse the innocent, or who have received money for accusing or refraining from accusing, for denouncing or refraining from denouncing testimony, are ordered to be held liable under the penalty of the lex Cornelia.

### [C. CXXIX.]

Ibid., book XLVIII, title on the Lex Iulia on extortion. Marcellus, book I on public proceedings.

One who, while holding some office, received money for giving or withholding judgment, or for making or not making a decree, is liable under the Lex Iulia on extortion. \[As\] Venuleius Saturninus \[states\] in book III on public proceedings: \[the same applies to one who received money\] so that he might do more or less of what his office required.

### [C. CXXX.]

The same.

The same law applies to those who have received money for giving or refraining from giving testimony as a witness. §. 1. The Lex Iulia on extortion provides that no one should receive payment in return for conscripting or dispatching a soldier, nor
