---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 207a
pdf_page: 259
sortable_pagination_id: 259.1
---

### C. VI. Whatever is possessed is understood under the name of money.

Item, Augustinus, On Christian Doctrine.

All that men possess on earth — everything of which they are owners — is called money: a slave, a vessel, a field, a tree, livestock; whatever of these things one has is called money. §. 1. And it is called money because the ancients had their wealth in livestock \[*pecora*\].

### C. VII. Those who buy ecclesiastical benefices are proved to be buying churches as well.

Item, Pope Pascalis.

If anyone objects that it is not consecrations that are being bought, but the things that proceed from consecration, he is shown to be utterly foolish. For since a bodily church — such as a bishop, or an abbot, or something of that kind — profits nothing without bodily resources, just as a soul does not live bodily without a body, whoever sells either one of these, without which the other does not come about, leaves neither of them unsold. Let no one therefore buy a church or a prebend or anything ecclesiastical, nor pay a bribe or a gratuity before or after for such a purpose.

### C. VIII. Why the investiture of a church by laymen is not prohibited in the Gospel.

Item, Urbanus II, Bishop, servant of the servants of God, to his beloved son L., Provost of the church of Saint Vincent at Pavia, greeting and apostolic blessing.

The Savior foretells in the Gospel that toward the end of the age false Christs and false prophets will arise and lead many astray, and that his faithful ones will have many tribulations in the world, but that nevertheless the gates of hell shall not prevail. Therefore (as the Apostle says, there must be heresies, that those who are approved may be made manifest) we must arise in opposition with the Prophet and set up a wall for the house of Israel, and with the Apostle enter through many tribulations into the kingdom of God, since the sufferings of this present time are not worthy §. 1. to be compared to the future glory which shall be revealed in us. Since therefore you have made known to us that you are challenged on the question of whether it is simony to sell an ecclesiastical thing, it is plainly gathered that this is indeed simony from what the blessed Apostle said to Simon: “Thy money perish with thee, because thou hast thought that the gift of
