---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 209a
pdf_page: 261
sortable_pagination_id: 261.1
---

Those who buy in the temple are those who, because they are unwilling to render to a neighbor what is just, and because they refuse to do what is lawfully owed, purchase sin by paying patrons a price.

### C. XI. Those who do not exercise freely the grace they have received from God are sellers of doves.

Item, Beda, on John chapter 2.

Not only are they sellers of doves, and make the house of God a house of trade, who seek sacred orders by giving a payment of money, or of praise, or even of honor; but those too who exercise in the church a spiritual rank or grace which they have received through the Lord’s bounty — not with pure intent, but for the sake of some human recompense — contrary to that word of the apostle Petrus: “Whoever speaks, \[let him speak\] as the oracles of God; whoever ministers, \[let him do so\] as from the power which God supplies, so that in all things God may be glorified.” Therefore, whoever such persons are, if they do not wish to be driven out of the church at the coming of the Lord, let them remove these things from their deeds, lest they make the house of God a house of trade.

Gratianus. Teaching that no one ought to convert to his own use, whether by force or by any gift, the things of the church that arise from consecration, the holy Urbanus says:

### C. XII. Let no one convert by force or gift what arises from consecration to his own use.

Whoever sells or buys ecclesiastical things — which are the gifts of God, since they are given by God to the faithful and by the faithful to God, and are received freely from him, and therefore ought to be given freely — for his own gain, supposes, together with the same Symon, that the gift of God may be possessed for money.

### C. XIII. Bishops who distribute tithes and offerings to laymen rather than clergy are simonists.

Item, Gregorius VII.

Ill report has reached us that certain bishops do not bestow the tithes and offerings of Christians upon the priests of their own diocese, but rather upon lay persons — namely knights or servants, or (what is more serious) upon their own kinsmen. Wherefore if any bishop henceforth be found to be a transgressor of this divine precept, let him be reckoned not the least among the greatest heretics and antichrists; and, as the Nicene synod decreed concerning simonists, both the bishop who gives and the laymen who receive from him, whether for a price or as a benefit, are to be consigned to the fires of eternal burning.
