---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 210a
pdf_page: 262
sortable_pagination_id: 262.1
---

### C. IV. Concerning the same.

Item, in the same, c. 24.

Those who as small children were baptized among the Donatists, being not yet able to understand the ruin of the error, if after they have reached the age capable of reason, recognizing the truth and abhorring their \[the Donatists’\] falsehood, they have been received into the church by the ancient rite of the laying on of hands — the name of the error ought not to hinder such persons from receiving the office of the clergy.

### C. V. The evil deeds of kinsmen are in no way a hindrance to clergy, unless they were knowing accomplices.

Item, Leo IV, to Ebruinus and Adelfredus.

Because the office of our pontificate — as you well know — must be solicitous not only for the welfare of priests but also of laypeople, we therefore wish your brotherhood to know that this present presbyter has come to the apostolic see and has recounted to us in order the violence done to him and his excommunication; he likewise reported that his church had been taken from him without just process of law, and that another priest, driven by jealousy, had presumed to usurp it by giving a gift. Thereupon his parents, driven by great grief, at once seized that priest who was holding his church and put out his eyes. Yet the said priest himself states that this was done without his will or counsel. If it is as he has testified to us with his own mouth, you must take great care that, if he himself was not canonically excommunicated, canonical absolution be granted to him.

### C. VII. The treachery of parents ought not to harm their children.

Item, from the Fourth Council of Toledo, c. 60.

Baptized Jews, if thereafter they apostatize and are condemned to any penalty for \[crimes\] against Christ, their believing children ought not to be excluded from their property, because it is written: “The son shall not bear the iniquity of the father.”

### C. VIII. The sins of parents are not imputed to those who are shown to be personally separated from them.

Item, Augustinus, to Bonifatius, Letter XXIII.

Now therefore, when a man has in himself become a different person from the one who begat him, he is not held liable for the sin of another without his own consent. He did indeed contract guilt, because he was one with, and in, the one from whom he contracted it, at the time when what he contracted was committed. But one does not contract \[guilt\] from another when each is already living his own proper life, from which it is said:
