---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 214a
pdf_page: 266
sortable_pagination_id: 266.1
---

yet there was no law of the Church \[to this effect\]. We know the first sinner Mary; after her conversion, even though she was holy and chaste, she was nonetheless not counted among the deaconesses.

But why do I say this? Following the holy apostles and the venerable Fathers, I cry out with complete confidence: he who has been ordained through simony — whether bishop, priest, or deacon — is a stranger to the priesthood; for the grace of the Holy Spirit is not for sale; the tradition of Caiphas and the invention of Symon are foreign to the holy priesthood. §. 3. And if someone has fallen into fornication after baptism, he is not received into the priesthood; for the canons forbid this. But if anyone has been advanced to the priesthood with this sin, let him be deposed when discovered. §. 4. I confess that him who was ordained for money, God receives through penance. He is good to all, and his mercies are open to every man who repents. But since, according to the Apostle, it behooves a bishop to be irreproachable, whoever has ordained anyone for money or has been ordained \[for money\] is to be estranged from all priesthood. §. 5. Patriarch Tarasius said: Whoever ordains or has ordained, or is ordained or has been ordained as bishop, priest, deacon, or any member of the priestly order, for money — let them be utterly expelled from the priesthood, like Symon Magus by Petrus.

Whoever has obtained the dispensation or care of monasteries, churches, religious houses, hospitals for pilgrims, homes for the elderly, or orphanages for money, let them be expelled with deposition from that dispensation and care. He who, having fallen into fornication after baptism, was ordained, if he afterward confesses, let him cease from ministry; but if he is convicted by someone, let him be fully deposed. §. 6. A bishop, priest, or deacon who strikes another, whether by himself or through another, as though wishing to inspire fear thereby, let him be deposed. Likewise: §. 7. He who has been ordained through secular powers or has obtained a church, let him be deposed; but if \[he has obtained\] a religious house, let him be expelled.

PALEA.

### C. III. On the Same Matter.

Item from the Council of Meaux \[Meldense Concilium\], c. 43.

It must be most carefully guarded against and strenuously worked at, and forbidden by the power of the blood of Christ — to bishops and
