---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 214b
pdf_page: 266
sortable_pagination_id: 266.2
---

kings, all higher powers, all supporters and electors of whomsoever, all consenters and ordainers in ecclesiastical rank — that no one obtain a position of governance through the simoniacal heresy, by any faction, cunning, promise, advantage, or gift, whether in person or through a proxy.

### C. IV. Who among Those Returning from Heresy May Be Received, and Who May Not.

Item from the same Seventh Synod, Session I.

II. Part. When \[the bishops\] had assembled at Nicaea in Bithynia and were seated, with Petrus the archbishop and Petrus the priest and abbot of the monastery of Saint Saba holding the place of Pope Adrianus, and Tharasius the archbishop of Constantinople, and Iohannes and Thomas as apocrisiaries of the apostolic sees of the East, and the remaining bishops, the bishops of Sicily said: It is fitting that we inquire about future matters. §. 1. Likewise, Basilius the bishop of Ancyra said: The ecclesiastical constitution handed down canonically from of old by the holy apostles and their successors, our holy Fathers and teachers, and the holy six universal synods and orthodox local synods, requires that those who return from any heresy to the orthodox faith and tradition of the catholic church must deny their heresy in writing and confess the catholic faith. §. 2. Likewise, Patriarch Tharasius said: Does it seem right to you that those who return from heresy should receive back their sees? §. 3. The most devout monks said: Just as the six universal synods have received those returning from heresy, so do we also receive them. §. 4. The holy synod said: This pleases all of us.

And Basilius the bishop of Ancyra, and Theodorus the bishop of the city of Myrrha, and Theodosius were commanded to sit in their ranks and sees. §. 5. Likewise, Constantinus the bishop of Cyprus said: It is not fitting for us who are bishops to stand in need of instruction, but rather to be teachers of others. §. 6. Likewise, Tharasius the bishop said: Bad teaching comes from bad teachers. The Church does not receive priests from bad teachers. §. 7. Likewise, Iohannes the apocrisiary of the eastern sees said: Heresy separates every man from the Church. §. 8. Likewise, Tharasius the bishop said: Behold, many canonical books, both synodal and patristic, have been read, and they have taught us to receive those returning from heresy, if no other cause
