---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 215b
pdf_page: 267
sortable_pagination_id: 267.2
---

Yet by that chapter of the Nicene Synod — “If anyone \[obtains orders\] for money, etc.” — and by that other of the Seventh Synod — “If anyone \[violates\] every tradition, etc.” — and by the authorities of Innocentius and many others, they are commanded to be irrevocably condemned.

Hence also Leo IV \[writes\] to the Bishops of Britain:

### C. V. Simonists Cannot Do Penance While Retaining Wrongly Received Orders.

You ask concerning those who are not afraid to sell doves for the most shameful gain in the temple of the Lord, and who by their wicked deeds join themselves with rash boldness to the heresy of Symon — whether they can perform penance in \[their\] order, or only outside of \[their\] order. For those convicted and those known to have committed so detestable an outrage (which has already been condemned by many councils), we cannot assist them with any penance, nor go against so many spiritual Fathers; but let it be certain to all that I align myself with the judgment of those Fathers.

IV. Part. Gratianus. \[This holds\] unless the rigor of discipline is sometimes tempered. For there are many crimes that are condemnable, yet which the Church tolerates for a time, with regard to persons, out of consideration for piety, or necessity, or utility, and for the exigency of the times — as Gelasius did, who, since he saw the Italian church, on account of the incursion of war and famine, destitute of almost all clerical ministry, to such an extent that many peoples lacked the means for the governance of their souls, conceded that clerics might be drawn from monks or from laymen, saying thus to the Bishops through Lucania, Epistle I, c. 1:

### C. VI. The Decrees of the Apostolic See Are Tempered for the Necessity of the Times.

We are constrained by the necessary disposition of circumstances and are urged by the governance of the apostolic see to weigh the decrees of the paternal canons in such a way that those things which the necessity of the present times demands be relaxed for the restoration of churches, we may temper with diligent consideration, as far as can be done.

Gratianus. Likewise: “Given these circumstances, etc.” \[See\] above in the treatise on those to be ordained.

Likewise, Pope Innocentius, who for the necessity of the time — lest there be too great a scandal in the Church — had received those ordained by Bonosus the heretic, says in his decrees, Epistle XXII to the Bishops of Macedonia, c. 5:

### C. VII. When the Necessity Ceases, What Was Pressing Should Likewise Cease.

What was decreed as a remedy and for the necessity of the time is known not to have been \[the practice\] from the beginning. What therefore necessity devised as a remedy — when that necessity ceases, what was pressing should likewise cease; for one thing is the legitimate order, and another is what an exceptional measure compels to be done for the present time.
