---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 216a
pdf_page: 268
sortable_pagination_id: 268.1
---

Gratianus. Similarly, by way of dispensation, canon 8 of the Council of Nicaea decreed concerning Novatianists returning to the Church that they should be ordained:

### C. VIII. Those Returning from the Novatianists to the Church Are to Be Ordained Anew.

If any Novatianists should wish to come to the Catholic Church, it has pleased the holy council that they be ordained and so remain in the clergy. But before all else, this confession must be required of them in writing, that they declare they will observe the decrees of the Catholic Church by common consent.

### C. IX. The Oath of Those Returning from Schism.

Whenever the eye of the heart, clouded by the mist of error, is made clear by the light of heavenly illumination, great care must be taken lest the author of schism secretly rush in and once again sever from the root of unity, with the dart of error, those who have returned to it. And therefore, after I, N., bishop of the city of N., having discovered the snare of division in which I was held, and having pondered it long in my own deliberation, have returned by divine grace, by ready and willing desire, to the unity of the apostolic see, and lest I be thought to have returned not with a pure mind but in pretense, I pledge, under penalty of loss of my order and the bond of anathema, and I promise to you N., and through you to the holy Petrus, prince of the apostles, and to his vicar N., most blessed, or to his successors, that I will never, by the persuasion of any persons or by any other means, return to the schism from which I have been freed by the grace of our Redeemer; but that I will always and in all things remain in the unity of the holy Catholic Church and in communion with the Roman Pontiff. Wherefore, I say under oath, by Almighty God, and by these four holy gospels which I hold in my hands, and by the welfare of N., our lords who govern the commonwealth, that I will remain always and without doubt in the unity, as I have said, of the Church to which by God’s favor I have returned, and in communion with the Roman Pontiff. But if — which God forbid — I should separate myself from this unity by any excuse or argument, may I incur the guilt of perjury, be found bound to eternal punishment, and have my portion in the world to come with the author of schism. This document of my confession and promise I have dictated to be written by N., my notary, with the consent of the presbyters and deacons and clerics, who, binding themselves to me in this unity, have likewise of their own ready will subscribed to all the above-written with their own hands —
