---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 216b
pdf_page: 268
sortable_pagination_id: 268.2
---

— and I have subscribed with my own hand and delivered \[this document\] to you. Done in the place of N., on that day, and under the above-named consuls. Subscription of the bishop: I, bishop of the city of N., have subscribed to this my confession and promise, having first taken an oath to observe all the above-written.

Gratianus. But from the strict force of the canons, Pope Felix III writes to the contrary to all bishops, epistle I, c. 5:

### C. X. Those Baptized or Rebaptized outside the Church Are Not to Be Admitted to Ecclesiastical Service.

Those who at any age have been baptized or rebaptized anywhere other than in the Catholic Church are by no means to be permitted to enter ecclesiastical service. It must suffice them that they have been received into the number of Catholics. For whoever violates this ordinance, or who does not remove one whom he knows to have crept from such a company into clerical ministry, will be seen to pronounce judgment against his own order and communion.

Gratianus. On account of the person: as the blessed Gregorius, writing to Bishop Ianuarius, book VII, indiction 2, epistle I, says:

### C. XI. The Rigor of the Canons Is Sometimes Relaxed on Account of the Person.

Such great wickedness concerning your old age has come to my ears that, had we not still been considering it in a human light, we would have already struck it with a firm condemnation. §. 1. And indeed a sentence of punishment ought to have been hurled against you; but because we know your simplicity together with your old age, we are silent for the present.

Gratianus. On account of piety: as Gelasius, speaking of the illiterate and those physically impaired, says to the bishops throughout Lucania, epistle I, c. 18:

### C. XII. The Decrees of the Canons Are Sometimes Relaxed out of Piety.

If any such persons have been admitted either by their own rashness or through the negligence of those in charge, they are to receive no further promotion, and it must suffice them that this has been granted to them as an act of extraordinary compassion.

Gratianus. On account of necessity: as Pope Hilarius, who, when a grave scandal arose on both sides concerning a certain bishop ordained without the knowledge of his metropolitan, says in his letter to Ascanius and all the bishops of the province of Tarraconensis:
