---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 217a
pdf_page: 269
sortable_pagination_id: 269.1
---

### C. XIII. Certain Things Are Tolerated in the Church out of Necessity.

Since we see that whatever has been decided by either party is confused by every kind of perversity, and in view of the necessity of the times, we have decreed for this reason that what was done pertains to pardon — provided that henceforth no bishop is ordained without the knowledge or consent of his metropolitan.

### C. XIV. On the Same.

Item, Innocentius to the bishops of Macedonia, epistle XXII, c. 6.

When a sin is committed by peoples or by a crowd, because it cannot be punished in all on account of their number, it is customary to pass over it unavenged. I say, therefore, that prior matters are to be left to God’s judgment, and from what remains they must be guarded against with the greatest care.

### C. XV. Certain Things Are Tolerated by Dispensation Which the Rigor of the Canons Condemns.

Item, from the epistle of Cyrillus sent to Maximus, Deacon of Antioch.

I have learned from Paulus the monk, who is dear to me, that your piety refuses to this day to embrace communion with the most reverend bishop Iohannes, on the ground that certain persons in the Antiochene church still hold Nestorian views, or have held them, but have perhaps since come to their senses. Let your moderation therefore consider whether they sometimes gather and converse openly and shamelessly in agreement with Nestorius; though they may at some point have had a seared conscience, they are now gathered after having done penance for the things in which they were led astray, even if they perhaps shrink from confessing their transgression. §. 1. But lest we be thought to love contention, let us embrace communion with the most reverend bishop Iohannes, granting him indulgence, and for the sake of dispensation let him not find his case being handled against him with excessive subtlety, strictness, or vehemence. For the matter stands greatly in need of the grace of dispensation, as I have said.
