---
reading: gratian-c1
page: 217b
pdf_page: 269
sortable_pagination_id: 269.2
---

### C. XVI. On the Same.

The same, to Presbyter Ianuarius and the Archimandrite.

The management of affairs sometimes compels some persons to depart somewhat from what is strictly due, so that they may gain something greater. For just as those who sail the sea, pressed by a storm and in danger of shipwreck, in their anxiety throw some things overboard so that the rest may remain safe, so also we, when we have no certainty whatsoever of saving all matters, disregard some of them lest we suffer the loss of all.

Gratianus. On account of utility: as is stated in the Council of Meaux \[c. 844\], c. 64, concerning the sons of virgins who were seized by force and thus joined in marriage to those who abducted them:

### C. XVII. Certain Things Are Tolerated in the Church out of Regard for Utility.

Those born of such a union are not to be admitted to ecclesiastical orders, unless perhaps the greatest utility or necessity of the Church demands it, or an evident prerogative of merit commends them.

Gratianus. Petrus, in agreement with this, says: “In truth I perceive that God is no respecter of persons, etc.” §. 1. Also on account of the outcome of a matter, certain things are tolerated in the Church, as Leo says in his decrees concerning laymen suddenly ordained as bishops contrary to the decrees of the canons, epistle LXXXV \[also numbered LXXXVII\], c. 1, to the bishops of Africa:

### C. XVIII. Laymen Promoted to the Episcopate contrary to the Decrees of the Canons Are by Mercy Allowed to Retain the Office They Have Received.

The circumstances demand that a fitting punishment be levied not only against such bishops, but also against those who ordained them. But we are surrounded on the one side by the gentleness of mercy, on the other by the censure of justice, so that we believe certain offenses must be borne in one way or another,
