---
reading: peraldus-summa-simony
page: 219va
pdf_page: 484
sortable_pagination_id: 484.1
---

even generous people from giving. Hence the Lord in Matthew 7 forbade that his gifts be lavished upon dogs: “Do not,” he said, “cast your pearls before swine” — that is, do not give precious gifts to those who despise them.

## The fourth insult is

that simony takes from God the door of the Church, which the Lord especially wished to guard — on account of which he called himself the door (John 10), just as someone is accustomed to place himself in the middle of a doorway when he wishes to ensure that no one enters except by his will. By this word the Lord signified that anyone who entered other than through him would, as it were, do him violence. To show further that he wished the entrance to the Church to be guarded above all, he himself entered to the disciples through closed doors. For one who wishes to guard an entrance well is accustomed to open as little of the door as possible for the one who must enter, and it would greatly please him if the one who must enter could enter with the door entirely shut. To demonstrate the same point, the Lord commanded in Exodus 12 that the doorposts be smeared with the blood of the lamb — as if to say: at the very least I wish to guard the door of the Church, which I purchased with my own blood. For this reason he entrusted the keys of the Church to Petrus, because \[Petrus\] loved her more ardently than the rest. The same can also be illustrated by a parallel from fortifications: during wartime, the gates are customarily guarded above all else — hence towers are usually built above them.

## The fifth insult is

that simony brings it about that the Church, which is the bride of God, becomes pregnant from someone other than her spouse. The Church ought to conceive from the Holy Spirit alone, which was prefigured in the Blessed Virgin, who “was found to have in her womb from the Holy Spirit” (Matthew 1). But simony causes her to conceive from an evil spirit. Hence it is remarkable that her spouse does not abandon her. For Ioseph wished to dismiss the Blessed Virgin when he doubted how she had conceived.

## The sixth insult is

that it causes illegitimate children to be nurtured \[at the Church’s expense\].

## The seventh insult is

that it disinherits the children of God from the patrimony of Christ and establishes the children of the devil as heirs in their place, according to Ecclesiasticus 23: “Every woman who abandons her husband will sin, establishing an inheritance from a strange marriage.”

## The eighth insult is

that it makes God into an offering to an idol, presenting him to the idol of greed. And in this simony is more detestable than other species of avarice. For it is not enough for simony to set up another god; it immolates the true God to its idol when it celebrates \[the sacrament\] for money. It would be a great insult to the lord of a castle if his subjects established another lord; but it would be a far greater insult if they offered the true lord as a captive to that newly established lord.

## The ninth insult is

that this sin shows deference to no place and no person. Other sins show deference to the sanctity of places. For no one would commit fornication in a church or upon an altar; but simo-
