---
reading: peraldus-summa-simony
page: 220vb
pdf_page: 486
sortable_pagination_id: "220_004"
---

dissembles, crawling on hands and feet, to see whether he might somehow introduce himself into the patrimony of the Crucified.” The third division is according to the diversity of things that simoniacs sell, because among the spiritual goods that they wish to sell, some are spiritual because the Holy Spirit is incidental to them, such as the sacramentals of the Church. Others are spiritual because through them the grace of the Holy Spirit is conferred or increased, such as the sacraments of the Church — except for matrimony — and ecclesiastical burial, and the offices or dignities of the Church. Some things are called spiritual because they are possessed through the Holy Spirit, such as knowledge and virtue. For knowledge belongs to the Holy Spirit insofar as he illuminates, and therefore the selling of knowledge is forbidden in Proverbs 23 \[Proverbs 23:23\], where it says: “Buy truth, and do not sell wisdom, and teaching, and understanding.” Virtue, moreover, belongs to the Holy Spirit insofar as he moves souls. Some things are called spiritual because through them one is shown to possess the Holy Spirit, such as miracles. Some things are called spiritual in a broad sense of the term, because they serve spiritual exercises, such as the vessels and vestments of the Church. Others are called spiritual because they sustain those who are devoted to spiritual exercises, such as tithes. But these last two categories should more properly be called things annexed to spiritual goods rather than spiritual goods themselves.
