---
reading: calvin-institutes-preface
page: 5v
pdf_page: 12
sortable_pagination_id: 12
---

as to forget its own people and its father’s house. And if they are so eager to allegorize, why do they not interpret the Apostles, rather than any others, as the Fathers from whose appointed landmarks it would be impious to depart? For so Hieronymus interpreted it, whose words they themselves received into their canons. But if they wish the landmarks of those they have in mind to be fixed: why do they themselves, whenever it pleases them, transgress them so freely? Among the Fathers themselves there were those — one of whom said that our God neither eats nor drinks, and therefore has no need of chalices and dishes; another, that holy things do not seek gold, nor do those things that gold cannot buy please \[God\] through gold. They therefore transgress the landmark when they take such great delight in sacred things of gold, silver, ivory, marble, gems, and silks, and think God cannot be rightly worshiped unless everything overflows in exquisite splendor — or rather in mad extravagance. There was a Father who said that he freely ate meat on the day when others abstained, because he was a Christian. They therefore leap over the boundary when they devote to hell the soul that has tasted meat during Lent. There were Fathers, of whom one said that a monk who does not labor with his own hands is to be judged equal to one who commits robbery — or, if you prefer, to a brigand; another, that it is not lawful for monks to live at another’s expense, even if they are assiduous in contemplation, in prayers, and in studies. They have also transgressed this landmark when they settled the idle and pampered bellies of monks in their dens and vaults, to be fattened on the substance of others. There was a Father who declared it a horrible abomination to see the image of Christ or of any saint painted in Christian churches. And this was not pronounced by the voice of one man alone, but decreed also by an ecclesiastical council, that what is worshiped should not be depicted on walls. They fall far short of keeping themselves within these boundaries, since they leave no corner empty of images. Another Father counseled that, having performed the duty of humanity toward the dead in burying the departed, we should let them rest in peace. They break through these landmarks when they burden people with perpetual anxiety for the dead. Among the Fathers was one who testifies that the substance of bread and wine remains in the Eucharist and does not cease, just as the substance and nature of humanity remains in Christ the Lord, united to the divine nature. They therefore transgress the boundary who imagine that the substance of bread and wine ceases when the Lord’s words are recited, so as to be transubstantiated into his body and blood. There were Fathers who administered one Eucharist only to the whole Church assembled, and who, as they excluded the wicked and criminal from it, so they most severely condemned all those who were present and did not communicate. How far have they removed these boundaries? — filling not only churches but even private houses with their masses, admitting any spectators whatsoever, and the more willingly the more any person pays, however impure and wicked they may be; inviting no one to faith in Christ and to fellowship in the Sacraments; but rather selling their own work in place of the grace and merit of Christ. There were Fathers of whom one decreed that those who were content to partake of one kind only, and abstained from the other, were to be wholly removed from the use of Christ’s holy Supper; another forcefully argues that the blood of Christ the Lord is not to be denied to the Christian people, for whose confession they are commanded to shed their own blood. These landmarks also they have abolished, having commanded by inviolable law the very thing that the one punished with excommunication and the other condemned with forceful reasoning. There was a Father who declared it to be rashness to make any determination on an obscure matter on either side without clear and evident testimonies of Scripture. They have forgotten this landmark when they established so many constitutions, so many canons, so many magisterial determinations without any word of God. There was a Father who reproached Montanus among other heresies for being the first to have imposed laws of fasting. They have greatly exceeded this landmark also when they established fasts by the most rigorous laws. There was a Father who denied that the ministers of the Church should be forbidden to marry, and declared that cohabitation with one’s own wife is chastity. And there were Fathers who assented to his authority.
