---
reading: middleton-sentences-4.25
page: 380a
pdf_page: 392
sortable_pagination_id: 392.1
---

Third, concerning the impediments to reception. Here \[i.e., at “Sacred”\]. The first part \[divides\] into three.

First, he raises the question whether heretics can confer holy orders, and argues for the negative.

Second, for the affirmative. Here \[i.e., at\] “On the other hand.”

Third, he resolves it by showing the diversity of opinions on this matter. Here \[i.e., at\] “But these things.” That part which begins there “Concerning simoniacs” divides into three parts.

First, he shows the gravity of simony.

Second, its inexcusability. Here \[i.e., at\] “But if.”

Third, the punishment of simoniacs. Here \[i.e., at\] “Simoniacs, moreover.”

## Article One

CONCERNING this distinction, there are six principal questions to be examined.

First, concerning the power of the one who confers orders.

Second, concerning the vice of conferral. Here \[i.e., at\] “Simony.”

Third, concerning the cases in which simony is committed.

Fourth, concerning purely natural defects that impede the reception of orders.

Fifth, concerning impediments that can arise from nature and from will.

Sixth, concerning impediments arising from infamy.

## Article One

### Question I.

*Whether a priest who is not a bishop can ordain.*

#### Argument 1.

IT SEEMS that he can: For when a priest is ordained, not the bishop alone lays hands on him, but also all the priests who are present. Decree, dist. 23, “Presbyter.” Therefore not only the bishop ordains him.

#### Second.

Likewise, what pertains to the bishop alone cannot be delegated to a non-bishop: but minor orders are sometimes conferred by non-bishops by commission. Extra, de ordinatis ab episcopo qui renunciavit \[on those ordained by a bishop who has resigned\], c. 1. Therefore, to confer at least minor orders does not pertain to the bishop alone.

#### Third.

Likewise, a priest excels a deacon more than one bishop excels another bishop: but one bishop can consecrate another: therefore a priest can ordain a deacon.

ON THE OTHER HAND, Isidore, book 17 of the *Etymologies*, ch. 12, says of the Pontiff that he it is who makes priests and Levites; he it is who disposes all ecclesiastical orders: therefore the conferring of orders pertains to no one else.

#### Second.

Likewise, only the bishop can consecrate virgins, 26 q. 6, “Si iubet,” and consecrate an altar, same question, “Ministrare.” But to confer orders is greater than to consecrate an altar or virgins: ther-
