---
reading: middleton-sentences-4.25
page: 380b
pdf_page: 392
sortable_pagination_id: 392.2
---

efore the bishop alone can confer orders.

### Conclusion.

The bishop alone, and no other, can confer the major holy orders; minor orders, however, can also be conferred by a priest who is not a bishop, either by commission or by law.

I RESPOND that the power of conferring orders can belong to someone in two ways: either by ordinary power, or by general or special commission.

In the second way, the conferring of minor orders can sometimes belong to non-bishops, as was shown in the arguments.

In the first way, the power of conferring any order whatsoever belongs to bishops alone. The cause of this is divine institution, and the fitting reason for this institution is as follows: just as it pertains to the prince alone not only to enroll warriors in the army but also to appoint the army’s commanders, so to bishops, who are the princes of the Church, it pertains not only to ordain people to contend boldly against the persecutors of the faith by confessing the faith of Christ — which is effected by the sacrament of confirmation — but also to them alone it pertains to appoint the commanders of the ecclesiastical army, which they do by conferring the sacrament of orders; for, as was said above at dist. 5, those ordained for the administration of the sacraments are appointed to this end, that they might be the leaders of others.

TO THE FIRST objection it must be said that, according to the opinion of some, order is not conferred in the laying on of hands. Or it can be said, according to others, that the laying on of hands by the bishop is for conferring orders, but the laying on of hands by the attending priests is for signifying concord and ecclesiastical communion.

To the second, the solution is evident from what has been said in the question.

To the third it must be said that, although a priest excels a deacon in order more than a bishop excels the bishop-to-be-consecrated, yet in dignity the reverse is true: for one to be consecrated as a bishop does not yet possess episcopal dignity, although he already has what pertains to jurisdiction after his confirmation.

### Question II.

*Whether a heretical bishop can confer orders.*

IT SEEMS he cannot: for in ordaining, God acts principally, and the one ordaining acts instrumentally. But an instrument does not act unless it is joined to the principal mover. Therefore a bishop does not ordain unless in ordaining he is joined to God. But heretical bishops, in ordaining, are not joined to God, because, as is said in Prima, q. 1, “The Lord hates the sacrifices of heretics and casts them away from himself.” Therefore they cannot confer true orders.

#### Second.

Likewise, same question, “Si qui a symoniacis.” Those who knowingly
