---
reading: middleton-sentences-4.25
page: 389a
pdf_page: 401
sortable_pagination_id: 401.1
---

tion of orders — therefore the female sex impedes the reception of orders.

Again, clerics must be tonsured (as has been established above); but as the Apostle says, 1 Corinthians 11: it is shameful for a woman to be shorn, and a little later: if she nourishes her hair, it is a glory to her — since, therefore, only clerics ought to be ordained, a woman ought not to be ordained.

### Conclusion.

*Both by law and in fact, the female sex impedes the reception of orders so fully that no woman can receive the character.*

I respond that the female sex impedes the reception of orders by law, because she ought not to be ordained, and also in fact, because even if everything were externally performed over a woman that is done over those who are ordained, she would not receive the order. The reason for this is that the sacraments have their force from their institution; and Christ instituted this sacrament to be conferred on males only, not on women. There were two fitting reasons for this institution.

One is that it belongs to orders to exercise the office of teaching, insofar as every order is ordered toward the presbyterate, to which this office belongs \[16, q. 1, *Adicimus*\]; and it is also said to belong to the order of deacon \[Decree, d. 25, *Perlectis*, §*ad diaconum*; and d. 92, *In sancta*\] — which is to be understood such that it is principally the priest’s office and the deacon’s by delegation; or, according to the gloss there, preaching means the reading of the Gospel. But to teach publicly is not fitting for a woman on account of weakness of intellect and mutability of feeling — defects which women, under the common law, suffer more notably than men; for it is fitting that a Doctor have a keen intellect for knowing the truth and a stable affection for persisting in its confession.

The other reason is that order constitutes the ordained in some grade of eminence, which ought in some way to be signified by the eminent nature of the one ordained; but a woman, in relation to man, has the status of subjection — which is also consonant with nature, because the female sex is naturally imperfect in relation to the male sex. We can draw these two reasons from the words of the Apostle in 1 Timothy 2, where he says: let a woman learn in silence with all subjection; but I permit not a woman to teach, nor to have authority over a man.

To the first objection: when it is said that in Christ there is neither male nor female, I say that by comparison to Christ, although there is no difference between male and female as regards merit, there is nonetheless \[a difference\] as regards office.

To the second it must be said that those called there
