---
reading: middleton-sentences-4.25
page: 391a
pdf_page: 403
sortable_pagination_id: 403.1
---

c. 1 and c. ult., even if they have entered religious life — although after they have made profession in a religious community they can without special dispensation be promoted to all orders; and this is found in the gloss on the aforesaid decretal, and such persons in religious life may hear confessions by commission; yet such a person could not be placed as a curate in a parish, notwithstanding the fact that his abbot can remove him from the religious house.

The arguments for the first part proceed with respect to the reception of orders by right.

TO THE FIRST argument for the other side it must be said that irregularity is not always a penalty owed to iniquity, since a man sometimes becomes irregular through an act of virtue — as is evident when a judge out of zeal for justice hangs a robber — and therefore, although those born out of wedlock are irregular, it does not follow from this that they bear their parents’ iniquities.

To the second it must be said that, according to the gloss there, that chapter is understood of one who has already been promoted; for such a person is not deprived of his right on account of a crime committed by another after his promotion.

To the third it must be said that what is committed through a voluntary act can afterwards be purged by a contrary act with the help of God; but not so a defect which arises from nature — though God, if he wished to alter the order of nature, could do so. And therefore, since defect of birth arises from natural origin, it is not purged by any act of the one who suffers that defect.

Or it can be said that, although one’s own fault harms one more than another’s with respect to merit and in relation to God, it does not follow that this must be true with respect to office and in the forum of men.

## Article V

NEXT the fifth principal matter is treated. And concerning it three questions are asked.

First, whether servitude impedes the reception of orders.

Second, whether notable deficiency of a bodily member \[does so\].

Third, whether homicide \[does so\].

### Question I

*Whether servitude impedes the reception of orders.*

AND IT SEEMS that it does not. Galatians 3: *In Christ Jesus there is neither slave nor free;* therefore a slave can be ordained just as a free man.

Furthermore, all other sacraments can be received by slaves just as by free men; therefore, by like reasoning, so can this one, since it imprints a character.
