---
reading: middleton-sentences-4.25
page: 394b
pdf_page: 406
sortable_pagination_id: 406.2
---

ved \[of his orders\]; yet as long as he lives let him do penance — by which it is implied that he is irregular, but not with a grave irregularity. What was said, moreover, that a man is bound to defend himself, is not to be understood when someone pursuing him wishes to kill him on account of the faith or good morals; for in that case it is better to bear death patiently for Christ’s sake than to defend oneself, as is shown by the example of Saint Maurice and his companions.

## To the Fifth \[Objection\]

To the fifth objection, it must be said that this is understood \[to apply\] if the judge punishes him more severely than the nature of the complaint requires. For if a man were to say: “I complain of this person because he killed my father, yet I do not seek that he die, but that he make satisfaction to me in money,” and the judge, the complaint having been proved, were to hang him, the one who withdrew the complaint would be irregular — because even if that person was punished more harshly than the nature of the petition required, he was nonetheless not punished more harshly than the nature of the complaint would have required. If, however, someone seeking to recover his property from a thief before a secular judge, which he could not recover otherwise, without charging the man with theft but only asserting and proving that the thing was his — if afterward the judge inquires and finds that the one who held the property had taken it by theft and hangs him — the one who sought his property is not irregular, because the judge proceeded ex officio to a further extent than the nature of the complaint required.

## To the Sixth \[Objection\]

To the sixth objection, it must be said that this is to be understood when a man is engaged in a lawful matter and exercises all the diligence he ought so that the danger of homicide is avoided. Hence that decretal speaks of a certain priest who had summoned someone to assist in the building of a church, and the priest was loosening a certain beam; the man went to the ground with the beam and was killed. The priest had warned those standing around in a loud voice, so that all could understand, to take care. Rightly, therefore, was such a priest not irregular. Similarly, neither is a priest who rings a bell for Mass \[irregular\]: if the bell falls upon someone walking beneath the bell-tower. Extra, de homicidio, “Ioannes sacerdos” \[*John the priest*\]. Similarly, if someone playing with another who has a knife at his side, and throwing him to the ground, he falls upon him and strikes the other’s knife and dies from it, the one who was carrying the knife is not irregular. Extra, de homicidio, “Lator præsentium” \[*The bearer of the present \[letter\]*\].

## To the Last \[Objection\]

To the last objection, it must be said that that text is to be understood of imputation with respect to fault and to the penalty that is not due except for fault — which kind of penalty irregularity is not, as was said above.

I have heard, however, a certain master \[*magister*\] say that even one who kills while drunk is not irregular, although that homicide was voluntary in its cause, because his excessive drinking
