---
reading: middleton-sentences-4.25
page: 397b
pdf_page: 409
sortable_pagination_id: 409.2
---

famy of fact does not appear to bar the reception of orders.

Likewise, one infamous by infamy of fact is not ipso facto suspended from the exercise of his office. *Extra, de purgatione canonica, Inter sollicitudines* \[X 5.34.5\] states that ecclesiastical law directs that such persons are to be suspended from office; therefore, by analogy, such persons are not ipso facto rendered incapable of the reception of orders.

Likewise, no one ought to be perpetually barred from the reception of orders on account of infamy of fact; but if someone were to be barred from the reception of orders on account of infamy of fact, he would be barred perpetually, because, as the gloss on *Extra, de purgatione canonica, Ex tuarum* \[X 5.34.10\] states, to remove infamy entirely belongs to God alone; therefore one infamous only by infamy of fact is not to be barred from the reception of orders.

### Contra

ON THE OTHER SIDE: one accused of a crime — because while his accusation is pending his reputation is impaired — is to be barred from promotion while the accusation lasts: *Extra, de accusationibus, Omnipotens Deus* \[X 5.1.21\], in the text and in the gloss. Therefore by reason of infamy of fact a man is to be barred from the reception of orders.

Likewise, *Extra, de testibus, Non debet* \[X 2.20.2\] states that those accused \[of crimes\] unless they have proved their innocence are to be barred from accusation and the reception of orders; but this is so only because before their purgation they are infamous by infamy of fact; therefore on account of infamy of fact a man is to be barred from the reception of orders.

Likewise, if someone has been condemned for a crime and appeals, while the appeal is pending he would not be received as a witness in a criminal case — *Extra, de testibus, Non debet* \[X 2.20.2\], in the gloss — and this appears to be for no other reason than infamy of fact; but as the same gloss on *Testimonium* \[X 2.20.37\] states, testimony in criminal matters, accusation, and the reception of orders proceed in step; therefore one infamous by infamy of fact is to be barred from the reception of orders.

### Conclusio

CONCLUSION. Provided the infamy has arisen not from the words of few and light persons but of many upright and weighty ones, the infamous person is held to be barred from promotion to orders; but if he is free from infamy, he is subject to the same judgment until he has abolished the infamy through canonical purgation.

I RESPOND that those infamous by infamy of fact are those whose reputation among many upright and weighty persons has been impaired with respect to some crime or crimes; the words of few persons, or of many of little account, do not constitute infamy, as long as their reputation is not impaired among upright and weighty persons. I say, therefore, that although for those infamous by infamy of law — whether that infamy was imposed by a definitive sentence or contracted through one of those crimes on account of which civil and canon law together decree and declare that a man is infamous ipso facto — lawful acts are prohibited ipso iure, nonetheless for those infamous by infamy of fact, lawful acts
