---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 100rb
pdf_page: 203
sortable_pagination_id: 203.2
---

\[been reported\] to have died within three days after the death of the master, lest they die together from shared grief, and he was reputed to have been the first and most perfect archbishop. Likewise, a madman wandering armed through the \[region\] mutilated everyone he could overpower before all their faces. Many who had been harmed fled. Likewise, \[consider the case\] still regarding the aforesaid \[matter of the\] arch-\[bishop\]: to the one who was seeking at your house the man to be put to death, he said: “Have mercy on him now according to the law, for in law one must show him mercy.” \[And then he said:\] “What do you say, cleric — will you denounce him? And you, layman — ought you to know him? I ask, and I warn you that perhaps his life is more \[at stake in\] the \[delay\].” Solution. For the sake of things, lest you become the cause of homicide, you ought not \[to do so\]. And regarding a promised commitment: you should have it clear that you will not secretly return the sword that a \[now\] insane man deposited with you while sane. I suppose that someone exchanged a sword with you, \[it\] to be returned — and it is to be returned to whoever demands it back — and suppose that he, now \[insane,\] demands it back from you: you will give it to him. Once you have already given \[it\], and it has been entrusted to you or to another, if he gives \[it back\], you are upright. There follows a question that can arise if someone deposited money with you, whether you ought to return it to be spent on usury, or to support pagans against Christians, or to aid heretics against the faith. What if he has given his word that you will return it to whoever demands it? If \[he or you\] says that you will not return it — on the contrary, hold it for the time being. Let him not give it up: if you \[can\] obtain someone else to keep the money as aid for pagans against Christians, try to seize it for the time being so that it does not go, until it please the princes to take that money from him. Solution. In an oath about the future, one must always understand implicitly an \[unstated condition\], so that afterward one may judge wisely what is to be applied \[to the situation\], as by the canonical \[rule of\] James. When someone swears to return a deposited sword or money, one implicitly understands that \[it is to be returned\] when it is due and \[fit\] to be returned, and if it is for the pure \[benefit of\] the one who deposited it, because the depositary \[is obliged to exercise diligence\] \[illegible\] so that, if he returns the deposit \[and\]
