---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 100ra
pdf_page: 203
sortable_pagination_id: 203.1
---

falsehood. That being so: he is to be praised if he says a falsehood rather than betray the man to execution. And will this not be said to be going against his mind, according to the theologian? — because he speaks contrary to his conscience; and this was the opinion of the greater Master Odon, who said that a man ought certainly rather to say a falsehood than, through perjury or some other means, to give occasion for killing someone whom he could save. Nor would it be fitting to convict the one who says a falsehood. And according to that meaning — for the purpose of saving someone’s life: if it were fitting to me, one should say that such a person relies on signifying evil, because neither the perfect nor the imperfect in the aforementioned case speaks contrary to his conscience by saying this falsehood: “he is not here.” On the contrary, to say this is in accordance with his conscience. If \[it be objected\]: how shall we answer Augustinus? — we shall say that for the perfect, if it were fitting within and without, even by the example of preserving another’s temporal life — still less by preserving another person’s temporal life through lying. But let us say that what is to be done is \[the following\] in this matter about preserving temporal life: although the perfect, by preserving the body or temporal life of another, may speak a falsehood — which shows them to act contrary to their discerning conscience — he would swear or speak a falsehood of something other than what his conscience dictates should be done, coming from the perfect for the sake of some slight confirmation of the assertion. Thus I say to you: “He whom you seek is not here.” I should praise this, and \[I say\] that the solemnity of an oath could give occasion for the worst scandal and make others too ready to swear. Now what we say can be confirmed by many examples. A certain man full of the Holy Spirit, while being led before a judge who had robbed him and was demanding his life, \[was asked about\] the thief who had stolen his goods. He answered first: that witnesses should approve him — whereupon they immediately refused to hang that wicked man — and then, when others pressed in, he said: “He who robbed me — for that man was very learned — he is most handsome and upright.” Also, the students of Master \[illegible\] who were said to have
