---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 101ra
pdf_page: 205
sortable_pagination_id: 205.1
---

\[to earn\] praise. One must not lie in the sixth kind, because no one’s \[temporal\] welfare is to be purchased for him at the cost of \[another’s\] sinful act. One must not lie in the seventh kind, because the advantage or temporal safety of any individual is not to be preferred to \[the duty of\] faith. One must not lie in the eighth kind, because in the category of goods, the chastity of the soul and the modesty of the body are to be preferred. Among these eight kinds, the less one sins the further one lies from the first; that is, one sins more the closer one is to the first. A manifold objection arises against this. For the last kind, that is the eighth, recedes further from the first than the seventh. In the last kind, one lies to preserve chastity; in the seventh, to preserve life. One sins less when one lies to preserve chastity than when one lies to preserve life. Objection: homicide is a graver sin than fornication, and it is a lesser sin to swear for the safety of the body than for the preservation of chastity. Solution. A distinction is drawn above. Either the safety of the body itself is in danger, or the safety of the soul. Where the safety of the body itself is in danger, one sins less by lying to preserve it than by \[lying for\] the safety of the soul; and it is established that chastity is one form of the soul’s salvation; therefore one who lies to preserve chastity — which is a salvation of the soul — sins less than one who lies to preserve the safety of the body. If with \[this qualification\] we shall not say above that one lies to preserve spiritual safety in a lesser case. And when it says that the eighth kind is given \[as a lesser sin\]: Solution. In the foregoing, one must always consider the genus of the sin on account of which someone lies in order that it not be committed, and the greater the genus, the lesser will be the sin of lying to prevent it from occurring. As for what it says — that one sins less the further one recedes from the first — it is to be understood thus: one sins less insofar as one more carefully avoids the offense of the one who offends in the first kind, that is, insofar as one refers everything to avoiding that offense. If, however, to preserve the chastity of someone lest it be violated, someone considers a falsehood — if one lies, one strives to find the contrary of what is judged should be done or said; that is, one lies in another sense, namely one does not \[say\] the contrary of what one is announcing; if one says a logical falsehood, it can be called a benign given \[act\]
