---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 103rb
pdf_page: 209
sortable_pagination_id: 209.2
---

and Jacob’s \[deception\] at the outset, error about a person does not impede that blessing. Although error about a person impedes marriage, this applies more to marriage than to a blessing; for in marriage the consent of both parties is always required, but not so for a blessing. An analogous case is that of a bishop who, unknowingly excommunicated himself, believed himself to be another who was worthy in every promotion, and ordained a man as priest. It is established that the one who baptized or ordained in this way acted against his literal intention, for he unknowingly conferred the character of baptism on one person and the character of priesthood on another. Whether he sinned in this turns on whether he exercised all due diligence that he could. As for what follows: we shall say that, as the text states, Jacob in some respect acted with guile but without fraud. For guile or fraud is distinguished in three ways: one kind is for instruction, another for inspiration, and a third for deception. Instructional guile is that practiced by a pedagogue or master who uses \[some device\] as an instrument to lead a boy along toward walking; of this kind of guile Joseph made use among his brothers, when he hid the gold cup in his brother’s sack, for he knowingly intended to deal guilefully against his brothers in order to teach them more fully. The guile of inspiration \[is exemplified by\] the sons of \[illegible\] when they took the golden and silver vessels; but because God inspired this to be done, those who received them were devoted and obedient to their \[divine\] devotion, but those who did it were not \[acting from\] obedience but from the instinct of avarice, making off with them. This kind of guile was committed by Jacob, and in this he did not sin because he acted from obedience to what the Lord had inspired. The third kind of guile, which is done by way of false command and is always \[blameworthy\], has no place here. Finally, we say that this is false: that Isaac gave the blessing while not wishing the blessing to be given; for at the very moment in which he was giving it to Jacob he did not wish it to be given to Jacob, but rather to Esau, because we say he gave it against his intention and unknowingly gave it to Jacob. Against this: Isaac did not know it was Jacob for whom the blessing was sought, and Jacob strove
