---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 104ra
pdf_page: 211
sortable_pagination_id: 211.1
---

the difference between this and that. We shall say that this is that, or that they are not the same. Certain people are accustomed to raise objections here, rehearsing any number of arguments drawn from secondary sources, bringing in terms such as “knowing,” “thinking,” “seeming,” “believing,” and the like, which are ordinarily associated with that kind of knowledge. All of which we here judge to be beside the present point and so much recent triviality. We shall resolve through \[the following\] mode

## \[XVII\]

that question which asks whether Jacob sinned in buying the birthright for full value, and whether he incurred the taint of simony. It can be argued that he sinned, because the law of nature says: do not cause something to be done that you do not wish to be done. If Jacob did not wish this to happen — that is, what Esau in fact did: to alienate for a mere trifle something far too precious — and if this was an injury done by such a price, then also Pope Paschal says: if someone were to sell something without which the rest would perish, and of its fruits he left nothing, that is, the right of primogeniture, whose fruits were many spiritual goods compounded together, the succession of the fathers in the inheritance above all others, and in that related commentary, then the whole spiritual right was transferred \[with simony\]. The resolution: We shall say that Jacob \[urged\] Esau to the sale of the birthright; indeed Esau, led by his own will and inflamed by the itch of gluttony, had sold the birthright. Yet Jacob in buying it for a small price did not sin, any more than one sins who buys the kingdom of heaven for a cup of cold water. And further we shall say that such a great blessing that belonged to the firstborn was counted spiritually as \[equivalent to\] the blessing of priests, since the institution of priests had not yet been established and the Law had not yet been given; this is false: the right of the firstborn had many spiritual and annexed privileges.

It follows that we shall take up that most difficult question, which touches all of ecclesiastical law, asking whether it is lawful for a cleric to plead a capital case. First we shall examine whether in any case it is lawful for an ecclesiastic to punish anyone corporally or to handle a capital cause. Second, if he cannot handle such a cause, whether another
