---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 106ra
pdf_page: 215
sortable_pagination_id: 215.1
---

the Church. For how could the Church deny aid and defense to one who flees to it for refuge, seeing that before God there is no respect of persons, and since, at the likeness shown to all who entreat and flee to him, \[Christ\] said: “Neither do I condemn you; go, and sin no more”? Solution: No one deserves defense in the very act by which he offends. Hence if a thief rushes into a church and seizes its vessels, defense from it for such a person is absent, as Gelasius says \[C. xvii, q. iv, chapter “supra”\]. If the Church thinks it should defend other wrongdoers who flee to it in bodily terms, as the chapter of Gregorius cited above would say: likewise, if someone is inside a church and incendiaries rush in and set fire to it, or \[do other violence\], and you call out and summon them — and if you do so, all will immediately rush to the defense, and it will become the cause of their death if those people suffer death and their acts warrant it — and thus all laws and all rights judge \[it right\] to repel \[such violence\]. And Augustinus says: “We would choose to be killed rather than to bring evil men, who must be killed, to the slaughter of others.” This is found at C. xiv, q. v, chapter “unum solum.”

Solution: A distinction must be made as to whether you are perfect or imperfect. If you are perfect, you should choose to die rather than bring any persons to their deaths; the said chapter speaks to this. If you are imperfect, it is lawful to repel force and to call on neighbors for the defense of the Church and of public order, and then to take every measure, however great, than to fear that any person may suffer punishment for manifest breach of the peace out of a zeal for justice. Likewise, a new mandate has lately gone forth from the Roman pope to the king of the Franks, that he should with armed force attack the Albigensians and other heretics springing up in his kingdom, and this \[is decreed\] with a remission of sins. Since then the king has granted mercy to all such \[heretics\], has he not done this by the authority of the Roman pope? And so \[it appears\] that it is lawful for the king to grant mercy to such persons by the authority of the Church, and therefore the Church can send such \[persons\] forth unimpaired or draw \[them\] in
