---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 106rb
pdf_page: 215
sortable_pagination_id: 215.2
---

unpunished, as is provided in that constitution “Ad abolendam.” Likewise, the first question: we affirm the cross and attack the Saracens at the mandate of the lord pope, and there alone the question lies; and a similar question was put forward at the Council of Pisa under the ordinary legate recently mentioned, and we have spoken of it above. The fourth question follows: whether it is lawful for a cleric to act as advocate in criminal cases. That it is lawful: Gelasius pope instructed that the Church and ecclesiastics should defend their own causes, as is found at D. l \[and\] xxviii, first chapter, and in nearly all the following \[chapters\]. Hence if some such wretched person \[is involved\] in a cause that is criminal, and must be heard in accordance with the canons on behalf of the poor and the helpless, by reason of advocacy in such a cause — since the cause stands as a cause of blood — for the same reason a cleric may likewise do what is \[otherwise lawful\] in such a cause by reason; as at the command of a prince it is lawful for the cleric of a prince to carry out what pertains to such a cause, such that at the command of a prince he orders an official of the king to hang a man because the king has ordered that man put to death. Solution: If the advocate acts in that cause to rescue the property of the poor, of orphans, of wards, or of widows, or to advance their allegations in defense, he acts rightly. But if he aims toward inflicting a penalty of blood upon some innocent person with malice, he sins mortally and ought not to have acted as advocate in such a cause. If, however, he intends that a guilty person should be punished according to divine laws and according to forensic reason, he acts rightly. The fifth question together with its solution: we see that when a prefect orders his official to execute justice according to the custom of the kingdom, he sins mortally, because in the kingdom there happens to be such a custom: for instance, that a thief should be hanged immediately in whatever theft he is caught, and that being caught in two offenses carries a double penalty, and consequently being caught in two offenses the thief is hanged; yet for another \[crime\] he is hanged — for abortion, or adultery, or incest, or the like, in all of which \[the same rule\] applies. Hence whoever acts as advocate in such a cause.
