---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 106vb
pdf_page: 216
sortable_pagination_id: 216.2
---

are in no instance to be punished otherwise than as common thieves who steal and slaughter. If anyone asks what justice a prince exercises in these matters — since the Church ordinarily follows the custom that prevails regarding thieves, lest otherwise such persons proliferate without check — he should prudently decree that all such incorrigible thieves be truly imprisoned with the bread of affliction and the water of tribulation, who suffer on account of them according to the pure customs of the kingdoms. But I, as a prince, would never instruct my official to show any mercy toward theft or any similar transgression; I would tell him that he should administer justice to all according to right and righteous customs. Now if any person deserving of death is seized by an official and appeals to the hearing of a bishop, and \[the matter is\] sometimes manifest, it is neither to be \[further\] heard by him nor to be \[re-\]heard. Concerning whether and how this ought to be denied and determined: one must act in accordance with the cause, \[treating it\] criminally.

## Solution

The bishop should remit the one who has appealed to him to the hearing of the judge from whom he appealed, and thus escape the penalty of blood; if the person then presents himself, and if he is deserving of a penalty according to the forensic laws, let the lord punish him. Likewise ask \[illegible\]: a \[competent authority\] can without sin knowingly \[administer\] a mortal \[sentence\] from certain knowledge of what he knew. In this case if any persons hear the supporting allegations in turn and do not know how to reach a decision lest they act with reckless malice. Let them not put their comrade official among those who have been sent to \[condemn\] an innocent man. Truly, this official \[acts\] with nothing but \[that\] then — abandoning his office and sinning mortally. His confessor \[must advise him\] and his \[advisors\] must obey the right of the judge, all rules and laws for proper punishment. This \[illegible\] the true law \[holds\]: this accused man is convicted in a forensic \[proceeding\] and deserves a penalty, and it is just that the lord official should \[carry out the sentence\]; he sins mortally if he obeys or if \[only\] the appearance of things
