---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 106va
pdf_page: 216
sortable_pagination_id: 216.1
---

Moses the master punished the guilty according to the law of retaliation, and if anyone committed a theft he was compelled to restore the theft proven \[to be\] fourfold, and nothing else was inflicted. The Mosaic law \[has this\], and today the hands of the Lord in the Gospel are far more lenient than were the hands of Moses in the Old Testament. Certainly the evangelical law punishes those who violate ironclad covenants far more leniently than thieves who break into a house. Yet the pope was, or has been, accustomed to hang a brigand, and much more so should you hang someone to the harm, disgrace, and death inflicted \[on others\] — as when poverty or repeated depredation takes your children and your wife from you. Furthermore, an incendiary and a murderer \[must be\] most severely punished by a lord, and one absolved by the lord pope must, much more than others, be punished — those who burn spiritual temples and make them dens of abomination, who were fit \[for service\] yet refused to destroy the temple altogether, and who corrupt material \[buildings\], those who turn living stones that should be built into God’s edifice into \[mere\] stumbling-stones. A prince or his stewards are far more obligated to punish those who are brigands or incendiaries than similar \[wrongdoers\]. If anyone is greatly moved to astonishment over those \[punishments\] and their like, I judge it nobler that bishops ought to bring \[their complaints\] to the pope regarding the seat of their own kingdom. It is settled that he should punish the guilty in accordance with those \[customs\] that have been approved and condemned in nothing, whether old or new. But if the spirit inquires of his congregation, they too must hang those convicted of theft, adultery, or sodomy with a youth; and a prince must respond that one is more worthy of suspension for such abuse than for theft. Nor is the elegance of the customs of the kingdom such that someone should immediately be hanged — to hang someone immediately in the end or that one caught in incorrigible theft be utterly \[hanged\] — and the punishment of the greater ones becomes a fear to many. I believe that such abusers and corrupters of noble \[women\] and veterans
