---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 107va
pdf_page: 218
sortable_pagination_id: 218.1
---

\[that sin\] bars him from the order of priests wherever he may be; and if he lacks hospitality, sobriety, or chastity, or must be barred for any other reason, such a candidate for the priesthood \[must not be promoted\]. For the blessed martyr said that whoever offends in one point is guilty of all, and so if a man has always been guilty of inhospitality, he is not to be promoted. But if he has always been poor and therefore without hospitality, this should not bar him from promotion. Likewise, however, if he often receives all \[guests\] harshly, he is inhumane, and if he prefers to receive \[illegible\] more people, he is more inhumane and should be barred from promotion.

Likewise, all sins by which one who is to be retracted from \[holy\] life is in some degree impeded from promotion nonetheless yield once he has been promoted. And if he has confirmed \[his guilt\] by the contumacy or disobedience of a colleague who punished him on account of his \[remaining\] in that life, and by the disobedience of the one who, when summoned at the \[appointed\] time, refused to appear, he is to be barred from

## III.

promotion; or, if already promoted, he must be deterred from it. Likewise, under the law those who touched the ark were struck with death, and if anyone for a long time touches \[illegible\] the common bread of monthly \[observances\], if he holds that \[office\] having reclaimed it, he is to be barred from promotion or even wholly deterred from it.

## IIII.

Likewise, every mortal sin impedes one who is to be promoted. Yet after common penance every mortal sin yields \[the barrier\] to one already promoted so that he may exercise his office, and what impedes one being promoted yields to one already promoted; and then from the slow — \[yet\] in the inviolable matter — concerning fornication or some other mortal sin, you ought not to attend the office of such a person, where this is publicly manifest, notwithstanding the manifest precept of Gregorius; and if so, this is found at \[dist.\] c, chapter “nullus.” Likewise from you, otherwise using

## IIII.

any soul indeed in the new \[birth\] — if someone baptizes, the manner \[of baptism\] removes all irregularity from him if it existed before baptism; yet other \[irregularities\] that existed before baptism remain after baptism, and \[baptism\] removes the fault, so that \[such a person may not\] incur \[further penalty\].
