---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 108va
pdf_page: 220
sortable_pagination_id: 220.1
---

as those signed with the cross \[who attack\] the Saracens at the lord’s command — for that reason being fearful of blood, lest men delight in shedding another’s blood out of zeal for justice, such persons should not be promoted by the strictness of law. But whether through temptation or through some of their sins, they can in strictness \[illegible\] be promoted, \[though it\] is to be tolerated through the merit of encouragement to office. As is found at \[dist.\] i, q. vii, chapter \[illegible\].

### VIII.

Likewise, the Apostle’s statement that a bishop ought to be blameless shows that an infamous man ought not to be promoted, because infamy bars from promotion and deters from office. Hence if \[a person\] has been infamous before ordination — whether through theft, or through dishonorable commerce, or abuse, or any mortal \[sin\], or through an attack now against some undeserving party of which nothing \[further\] is certain — and \[yet\] is promoted, it is as if from honor — this is \[treated by\] Gregorius at \[dist.\] xlvii, chapter “repetitio,” and chapter

### IX.

“Si quis clericorum.” The same holds for a neophyte as regards promotion; as the Apostle says, lifted up by pride unto \[spiritual\] death, he rages against subordinates, showing himself a patron of the accomplices of thieves. Hence usurers recently converted to orders, or others \[in similar circumstances\], if they are then to be promoted to orders, \[they should not be\] lest \[illegible\] in the pursuit of domination they return to oversight \[of others\] or oppress the people with violent domination. Likewise, deformity of members

### X.

is a deterrent and bars from promotion, as is read in the Pastoral \[Rule\] of Gregorius and at \[dist.\] xlviii, section ii, where it says: “If a man of your seed who has a blemish offers the bread of his God, and if he approaches to minister at my altar: if he is blind, or lame, or has a large or twisted nose, or a broken foot, or is maimed, or hunchbacked, or blear-eyed, or has a white spot in his eye, or a wrinkle, scabs, or ringworm on his body, or is ruptured” \[Leviticus 21:17–23\]. Likewise, \[a canon\] on the venerable \[fathers\] says that if a deformity in a worthy or other member bars from promotion. It is settled that this in the literal sense is an impediment to being promoted that nonetheless yields once promoted. When one who loses an eye, foot, hand, or other member
