---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 108vb
pdf_page: 220
sortable_pagination_id: 220.2
---

or if he has intolerable imprudence, or a hump, or a goiter, or leprosy — whether he ought to be promoted, as is said of the leper: “Every leper, whether clean or unclean, or \[illegible\] a new blood-relative, ought \[illegible\] similar \[illegible\] benefit.” Likewise, the law of estimation says that a one-eyed man or a blind man ought not to have the administration of souls, and one who assumes authority from elsewhere than through the proper gates. But the loss of an eye is far more burdensome than \[the loss of\] a foot or a hand \[weighing\] on the body, and if any person is blinded in one eye, he should much more strongly be barred from promotion; and if \[certain\] indices in any of those things depicted \[in the passages cited\] signify something infected and taken in defect. You should know that this is done against reason and that such \[promotion\] is to be denied with every flaw, and since such persons today are promoted against all reason, they can \[be accommodated\] through extensive dispensation in promotions.

The third objection is thus: the lord pope \[acts\] from the first motion of Moses, \[and\] Moses could in no way dispense with such persons in respect of their exemption, and much less then can \[even so great an authority\] as the lord pope dispense with such persons where a clearer and greater scandal appears. We have fully resolved this above \[illegible\] in the treatise on penance. Likewise, inquire whether those who have lapsed

## XI.

in any mortal \[sin\] can remain even in their order and also be promoted. To which we say that by the strictness of justice if they make restitution. As all the chapters from the beginning of \[dist.\] xi down to that chapter “Consideravimus” demonstrate, and the following chapters show that they can be restored to their former grade after penance, and this through dispensation. Thus says Hieronimus on that \[verse\] of Malachi: “and he \[shall be\] as a refiner and cleanser of silver, and he shall purify the sons of Levi” \[Malachi 3:3\]. And behold, the same is found in the same distinction in the chapter “et purgabit,” and in the following chapter “quod quia ieitas.” Now in the Apocalypse Iohannes says of the fire of the blind: “repent and do the first works” \[Revelation 2:5\]. \[Thus the one authority\] will obtain indulgence in this from the other; what shall we say of those who are of legitimate marriage? Chapters

## XII.
