---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 109ra
pdf_page: 221
sortable_pagination_id: 221.1
---

certain \[chapters\] concerning them say that they ought not to be promoted to holy orders. The relevant chapter says at \[dist.\] xlvi: “De filiis presbitorum” \[On the sons of priests\]. The contrary chapters, however, say that they are to be admitted — as the chapter to the bishop of Le Mans, and the chapter of pope Osias, and nearly all the chapters of that distinction. The objection is made from Ezekiel: “the son shall not bear the iniquity of the father, nor the father the iniquity of the son” \[Ezekiel 18:20\]. Likewise, the Apostle \[says\]: “every man shall bear his own burden” \[Galatians 6:5\]. But \[there is\] the custom: the offspring follows the womb. Hence if the mother is a slave, the son will be a slave. Likewise, in Exodus: “I am a jealous God, visiting the sins of the parents upon the children to the third and fourth generation” \[Exodus 20:5\]. Likewise, ibidem it says, in the person of the children: “The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children’s teeth are set on edge” \[Ezekiel 18:2\]. And in decretals concerning such matters, in that title “On the sons of priests” and in nearly all the chapters of that title, we believe a distinction is to be made thus: either those who are born of a spurious \[union\] are imitators of their father’s incontinence or they are not. If they are imitators and \[therefore\] are not to be promoted, then certain chapters say that if they were in the manner of Moses from birth they are to be promoted. Here the contrary chapters say that Pelagius pope defines this more fully at \[dist.\] xxxiv in the chapter “firmissime,” where he says that \[illegible\] without any dispensation such persons, if they are otherwise worthy, can be promoted; \[yet\] as other chapters say, one must have recourse to the refuge of dispensation.

## XIII.

Let us examine the brief doubtful questions that are usually raised concerning dispensation. It must be seen: what dispensation is, what is required for this to constitute a dispensation, in what cases and by whom dispensation can be made. To define dispensation more briefly: dispensation is a lawful relaxation of the law. Hence it is called “dispensation,” as it were a “dissolving by weighing,” because it compensates in the relaxation of the strictness of the law what it is more expedient for the Church or another person to exhibit in the given place and time. When time
