---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 109va
pdf_page: 222
sortable_pagination_id: 222.1
---

even whatever \[truths\] have been generally concluded from the articles of the faith. \[illegible\] there is \[the position\] that they can \[illegible\] against something \[illegible\] or in memory, because authority says in the Gospel that as one apex or one iota \[illegible\] all things are fulfilled and \[illegible\]. \[illegible\] will happen. \[illegible\] And in Deuteronomy it says: “Cursed is the one who does not fulfill all that is written in this book” \[Deuteronomy 27:26\]. And if by the light of the Church not even the lord pope can dispense concerning anything in the Gospel \[illegible\]. And if by this \[he were\] about to dispense with saving no one \[illegible\]. \[illegible\] to be inflicted upon it, or about not offering hospitality, or about resisting violence, or about \[illegible\] and \[the command to\] one from whom a tunic is taken \[illegible\] to give the cloak as well \[Matthew 5:40\], and to hold \[something in reserve\] and give the other. Likewise, as Augustinus says at \[dist.\] xxiii, q. iii, chapter \[illegible\]: through dispensation something must be held or kept in check for the healing of lesser evils. \[illegible\] Whether in marriage, or in some peaceable dispensation, \[it must be\] held in check or \[kept\] temporarily \[illegible\].

### XVIII.

Natural \[law\] and positive \[law\], because the law \[illegible\] thus established by canons \[illegible\], since prior \[law\] can derogate from natural law or from general law: because natural law says, “What God has joined, let no man put asunder” \[Matthew 19:6\]. And a man can put \[them\] asunder through dispensation when all marriage \[illegible\] is of law. Likewise, the right \[illegible\] of marriage similarly \[pertains\] to natural \[law\], as is said in the psalm: “Vow and \[render\]” \[illegible\] \[and\] in the Gospel: “Render to the Lord \[illegible\] and your vows” \[Matthew 5:33\], and certainly \[illegible\] the pope can dispense, unless \[only when\] he cannot commute vows through dispensation itself \[illegible\]. Likewise, natural law always remains the same. By natural law \[illegible\] it was lawful for men. Hence it is said in the canon and above that \[illegible\] Jacob \[had\] four wives; such was the custom
