---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 109vb
pdf_page: 222
sortable_pagination_id: 222.2
---

\[in those times\], though it is not \[the custom\] now. Likewise, eighty concubines and forty queens were united to Solomon; and David likewise had several wives \[illegible\]. And natural law \[illegible\] that if \[it were the case\] today the same \[would hold\], since natural law today does not oppose it. \[illegible\]. And since dispensation today can cooperate \[illegible\] to oppose natural law. If you say that the positive law \[as\] a statute impedes, dispensation derogates from positive law, and dispensation with knowledge of just cause can do more \[even\] against natural law than positive law. One must resolve what is \[a matter of\] natural law, or that, or \[illegible\] in \[illegible\], and \[concerning\] the precepts or prohibitions held \[therein\]: and \[that\] concerning the articles of the faith admits no dispensation at all. Certain things written in the Old or New \[Testament\] that were \[illegible\], among which some that were illicit \[illegible\] on account of inexpediency will admit dispensation: as if you are perfect, \[illegible\] of perfection, you ought to imitate not only \[illegible\]; if also certain letters through which you can proceed to \[illegible\] which speak of inexpedient things. Or if you are in the \[office\] of preaching, you ought not to delay on the road on the occasion of greeting any person \[illegible\] in conversation \[illegible\], nor ever to seek sustenance, any evangelical support or money \[illegible\] to carry, nor \[illegible\] nor to change lodgings \[illegible\], not being constant. Even one who \[holds\] more \[illegible\] in \[illegible\] can dispense, because if he found \[illegible\] every occasion of scandal or impediment \[illegible\]. Likewise, through \[illegible\] those things that by their nature receive dispensation perpetually are those that ought to be by way of censures or penal sanctions: for example, someone who is to be excommunicated, suspended, or degraded — the pope can dispense with such a person by acting with less severity. And any \[confessor\] \[can dispense\] with a penitent by reducing some of the penalty or remitting it wholly; and penances are a matter of judgment. Likewise, the pope can also by reason dispense in human law established by his predecessors: for example, Gregorius and Leo, supreme pontiffs of \[their\] orders, \[decreed\] \[illegible\] that no one \[illegible\] within the fourth degree of consanguinity or affinity; the pope through dispensation can join certain persons within such a degree.
