---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 111rb
pdf_page: 225
sortable_pagination_id: 225.2
---

one must speak concerning the servants of pagans. For if pagans own Christians or others as slaves, they are not to be taken away \[by force\], but \[the slaves\] are to be admonished to live as Catholics in subjection to their condition, in all fear of their masters — whether \[the masters are\] \[illegible\] or \[illegible\]. We also speak of the disloyal and apostates, and of those who are infected — except with a crime — who are in no way to be promoted, unless the greatness and utility of the church demands it, and provided there is certainty of complete purgation and of the sufficiency of penance. The church fully \[endorses this\] and the pope who is above the church can make allowance for them along with others who have lapsed. One must first attend to the whole range of crimes — whether spiritual or bodily — and whether it is grievous or moderate, and the quality \[of it\]: whether it was occasioned or manifest, and the reason — whether committed by one or many, and whether the satisfaction \[given\] was genuine or feigned, and whether the confession was spontaneous or compelled. If the crime is fully spiritual \[in character\]: if it is grievous, then however a person stands, if he sins in some grievous manner he \[cannot be promoted\].

### XXVI.

Item, of what kind were \[the crimes\]: pride, avarice, and lust. C. 5 q. 1, c. “Siquis nimius.”

Indeed, the hand of the ecclesiastic today is beset on every side — so that even the cause more easily withdrew from vices \[him who committed them\]. A question concerning judgment, and concerning every form of the eucharist, and concerning \[judicial\] sentence, \[illegible\], concerning nets \[witnesses\], concerning the relapsed, concerning appeals — the cognizance of all of which pertains in a special way to the makers and pastors of the church. We shall briefly discuss these and attempt to decline \[from error\] by the authority and well-known \[teachings\] of certain canons. Item: if a case is grossly \[mis\]handled before an ordinary judge, or if a \[matter of\] accusation or fiscal matter \[is brought\] by some person \[against another\] in hatred, or for the purpose of denunciation or to harm another — none such proceeds to denunciation, which is \[properly\] for the end of correction: first in secret, second before witnesses, \[third\] before the church. As shown in that gospel canon: \[Matthew 18:15\] “\[If your brother\] sins against you.” It is to be noted that one who proceeds not \[merely\] \[for an end of\] correction acts from this cause. And anyone ought to act thus against his own lord, as we declare. But in every such \[action\] that is \[brought by someone\], it fails for anyone who would be the accuser not
