---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 112ra
pdf_page: 227
sortable_pagination_id: 227.1
---

following canons, and Augustinus notes on Genesis: “the evident enormity of the crime is the great outcry of accusation,” as the text states. And the judge must restrain himself from \[hasty\] action and proceed with care to excommunicate him. And if \[the accused\] has reformed, \[well and good\]. If the judge has so neglected the delay of sentence — that is, of excommunication — as the letter states at C. 3 q. 4, c. “Decernimus,” and also in that place, and concerning the citation, first, at C. 2 q. 1 \[sic\], c. “De Mierra,” it says: that however he has acted before the judge, he was sworn or indeed in all things definitively, and was wholly unwilling to set forth his \[position\] — against him, after due right, one can and \[should\] condemn. The third \[case\] is where the danger of scandal is imminent. As in the case of a priest keeping a concubine, who ought frequently to be suspended pending due satisfaction, lest it give rise to scandal among the faithful. And this must be done frequently, and if the legitimate \[basis of\] three things is presented to the cognizance of the holy threshold — namely the bishop himself, his ordinary judge — then by law, even without \[formal process\] and public report having been \[formally\] alleged against him. As at C. 2 q. 5, c. “Prioris.”

## IIII.

The fourth article concerns the negligence of a bishop or abbot or others; first concerning the demolition of a church building. Then without judicial order the prelate must be \[suspended\] by prelates from his friends by the method he may wish to set forth beforehand to show that he is not among those who demolished it — namely: that the episcopal \[charge\] is one and the demolition of a church is the same matter, as at C. 1 q. 2, c. “Quidam.” The fifth and last case is where there is a defect in the capacity \[to be judged\] by reason of the supposed dignity \[of the person\], namely the lord pope, who is the supreme judge: if accused of the crime of heresy or of lèse-majesté, since without \[the process that would otherwise be required\] they ought not — except in \[full exercise of\] the plenitude \[of jurisdiction\] — for the cause amounts to a supplication. For if he were in his own \[jurisdiction\], no one could accuse him, since he would shamefully excommunicate the accusers. And his cause is expressly stated at C. 3 q. 1, c. “Paret.”

Item, it is to be noted that since there are three kinds of injuries — the first of which is condemnation, the second excommunication, the third suspension — in the first, which is condemnation, the judicial order is always required, in which one is condemned either to death in the secular forum or to degradation in the ecclesiastical forum. In the third \[case\], of excommunication or suspension, the \[judicial order\] is always required
