---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 114rb
pdf_page: 231
sortable_pagination_id: 231.2
---

perpetrators of crimes, a murderer, poisoners, an adulterer — those who have confessed or been convicted and are appealing fraudulently, as in the *Digest* on appeals, and on notorious matters \[there\]. Likewise, an appellant who has been heard in the decretals, in the Lombard chapter *cum sit romana*. Likewise it is permissible \[to say\]: “I appeal lest he obtain restitution,” and \[the appellant\] who enters into possession in the seventh \[manner\] if he should be heard, as the *Digest* on appeals provides. Likewise, appeal is not admitted through \[mere\] self-interest; nor if one appeals for a trifle is it heard. Likewise, appeal does not lie in matters of public duties, as the same question provides. Likewise, which \[other cases are excluded\].

Likewise, appeal is prohibited by the instruction of the delegate, in a rescript of the lord pope expressly requiring this removal. Likewise, it is prohibited by agreement of the parties, or if \[there is a\] \[illegible\] reason for the appeal. \[illegible\] the appeal \[illegible\] unless \[illegible\] fruitlessly invokes rectitude, as the decretal *nos* states. \[illegible\] the one who appeals — the judge \[to whom the appeal is brought\] must investigate whether the appeal was truly and justly interposed, and if it was justly interposed, he must proceed first unless \[there is reason\] according to the law, as the *Code* provides. And the one who \[fraudulently\] changes the appeal against his adversary is condemned in costs, as the decretal chapter *reprensibilis* on appeals provides. But it was objected \[against this\]. As indeed it was \[resolved\].

## VIII.

There is no appeal from arbiters, and from executors one must appeal — so says the canon. But to the contrary. \[One might argue\] quickly that arbiters openly decline to execute a second and even a third adjudication, and that one may appeal against a grievance thus inflicted, and that one can appeal both from arbiters and from executors. Solution: Concerning arbiters, that where it is against the law or against something there \[established\], one may appeal there if not submitting to the delegate. Concerning executors we distinguish, because there is execution of a mandate and execution of a judgment. Execution of a mandate occurs when a delegate commits some business to administrators, and there the place of appeal remains if the appeal has not been prohibited, as formerly in general causes all proceedings and accessories and exceptions were \[permitted\] with which it did not interfere. But when judgment has been executed — when the pope has definitively settled a matter in his court, he commits the execution of that judgment elsewhere.
