---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 115rb
pdf_page: 233
sortable_pagination_id: 233.2
---

removal of infamy, he is to be suspended from office and benefice. And if \[illegible\] he fails in his purgation, \[the penalty is that of\] a priest \[illegible\]. As that chapter on the title of simony clearly shows, as will be discussed. \[illegible\] any laboring under public infamy, and the judge must canonically demand purgation \[illegible\], and if they have failed \[in it\], the authors of such wickedness ought to be punished. But it may be objected: usurers \[holding\] sacred \[orders\] \[illegible\] or whoever \[suffers\] enormous infamy in that bishop’s \[see\] \[illegible\] ought to be punished for the infamy and \[illegible\] to consider whether such infamy existed — here \[we ask\] what \[illegible\] the bishop must do. If you say that the bishop ought to compel such a person to public purgation \[illegible\], to hear \[illegible\] the infamous person by the same reasoning, who must accuse another \[illegible\] in the same way \[must be\] altogether \[excluded\] from testimony \[illegible\] — the whole \[illegible\] is the judge \[illegible\] in prosecuting, and the judge is also the accuser, then \[he\] is himself accused.

## Solution.

We believe that a distinction must be drawn here: either there are credible presumptions against someone concerning infamy or concerning a grave \[matter of\] ill-repute. And if such presumptions are apparent \[illegible\] a concubine \[illegible\] the judge in his house \[illegible\] and \[illegible\], and \[illegible\] walked \[illegible\], and against a usurer \[illegible\] and \[illegible\], then the bishop must admonish and compel such persons to purgation \[illegible\]. And if they are unwilling to purge themselves and if \[illegible\] in the purgation \[illegible\] they are to be punished as perpetrators of grave matters. But if there are no credible presumptions of anything grave, \[and\] \[illegible\] the bishop should be in doubt about the infamy, then \[illegible\] he is required to compel \[illegible\] good men and \[illegible\] who tell him \[the same\] by oath, who will conceal \[illegible\] — rather whatever \[illegible\] of grave matters \[illegible\] they do not know — from whose \[testimony\] \[illegible\]. xxx.i.q.vi., chapter \[illegible\], and concerning \[illegible\] whichever of us \[illegible\] ought \[illegible\], concerning \[illegible\] pledges, each of them by such an oath \[illegible\]. \[illegible\] concerning others, whatever he knows and has heard \[illegible\] — he is manifest who acted against the will of God \[illegible\] charity toward them.
