---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 116ra
pdf_page: 235
sortable_pagination_id: 235.1
---

or to the shedding of blood and to harm a certain cleric, and therefore \[the cleric\] lodges complaint before the bishop, and we have accordingly ordered him to appear under penalty of excommunication, lest perhaps because of a pact \[he\] restore the penalty — because when \[someone is\] among possessors, then the discussion of persons must take place, and how the right of the possessor must be proved, and there it is said of possessors that when he says he has been despoiled and \[can seek\] restitution.

When moreover one who then intends an action against a person encounters these exceptions in the following manner: you say the enjoyment of a benefice is your right — I contest \[this\] since it is against the old ecclesiastical \[customs\] or ecclesiastical \[law\], and of whose family you are or whose son, such that you cannot possess such a thing. And in restoring possession, no exception \[is to be\] entertained as the recipient’s right, because this is the general statute: namely, every despoiled person must receive corporeal possession before the entry into litigation if it is established that he was despoiled. On these matters, the beginning of the law on possession is provided.

## IIII.

Likewise, actions are of many different kinds. For one is a recommendation — that is, one that concerns remuneration, as in q.i., *percaire me si ruis*. Another is the most serious, which is brought for a penalty in which \[the defendant is\] held either for recovery or for the sale of the matter in question. The first \[action\] perishes if \[the party\] has drunk of the first \[remedy\]; some prohibit prosecution by certain persons, as women \[who are to be kept back from\] disrepute, some \[who are\] of a superior rank, and those who have been defamed, and the supreme pontiffs; some \[are prohibited\] on account of a crime, as we infamous persons; some are prohibited on account of private standing, as mere boys and those who have changed their condition, as a freedman against his patron. Some are \[prohibited\] on account of the risk of calumny, as if they had suborned false testimony, and some \[illegible\], some \[who are\] poor and the supreme \[magistrates\] and such as are in garlands \[i.e., who have won honors\]. All these, in various ways, prevent us fully from \[proceeding with\] an accusation, as the first question, first chapter, *sentimum et cordam* provides. But \[it may be\] asked whether one should be condemned even without an accusation. It seems not, from the example of all \[cases in\] the Gospel of John, for \[even\] a defendant who is exposed to attack \[on his\] reputation, and thus often if he sleeps \[through it\] or \[the condemnation\] is offered as a health-giving warning in various ways.
