---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 117vb
pdf_page: 238
sortable_pagination_id: 238.2
---

they disapprove of what is said there: that if someone has obtained letters and afterward another \[has obtained\] others and so on — note that it is noted that \[the letters\] were obtained at different times. To this it may be said that anyone who afterward firmly wished to obtain \[letters\] — it was not yet established that he so wished. Likewise, suppose someone has obtained certain letters addressed to the provost of Bourges and to the provost \[of some other church\] in the belief that those \[offices\] name many dignities of many persons — just as certain ones who are in the habit of obtaining letters addressed to a dean and an archdeacon, thinking that those dignities belong to different persons. Now it is shown that two are united in one person. The question arises whether the one who is simultaneously archdeacon and dean can proceed on that rescript. \[The answer is\] no, because that person has not made use of this or of any other ecclesiastical benefice, since he is himself a monstrosity of many heads and wondrously contrary to the canons, as xxi.q.i. \[provides\]. What then is to be said of a poor man laboring under such \[circumstances\]? Would it not suffice if the proper names had been given or the names of dignities supplied as we discussed above?

### Solution.

That monstrosity does not render something done by him null, because that person is not \[thereby disqualified\] in obtaining \[letters\]. Hence we say that he can proceed without objection. Hence if the established certain places of dignity have come to certain \[persons\] legitimately. Similarly also in the \[other\] case.

V.

It must now be noted that there are many cases in which a rescript is of no force. For example:

If \[a letter\] is \[issued\] at the command of one lesser to one greater, or equal to equal, as at d.xxi., *instauratio*, and truly if \[it\] establishes some new \[rule\] or \[uses\] some rescript, as at xxv.q.i., *damnosa*.

If \[it is\] against any law whatsoever, unless it expressly accepts that the law is not to stand in the way, as in the *extra* on \[illegible\] *eum veniamini*, and the rest — v.q.ii., *nec damnosa*.

If it has emanated from the \[papal\] curia, as at d. and *in memoriam*.

If \[it was\] obtained in this manner without reason, as in the *extra* on \[illegible\] *eum*. If \[it was obtained\] through false suggestion or through \[matters of\] truth that \[the party\] was bound to disclose, as at xxv.q.ii., *damnosa*.

If it commands any matter whose petition \[the party\] was obliged \[to disclose\].

If it is not honest, just, possible, as in the *extra* on time and place \[*temporis locoque conveniens*\].
