---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 19ra
pdf_page: 41
sortable_pagination_id: 41.1
---

\[Through the prayers of Moses\] the Lord frequently turned aside the wrath he had prepared. The humility and adoration of David removed the Lord’s plague from his people. At \[Paul’s\] prayer \[illegible\] scales fell from the eyes of Paul; and through the intercessions of the Church that were being offered for Peter without any \[formal act of\] release, the chains fell from his hands — because, as James testifies, the earnest prayer of a righteous person avails much. But if someone should ask how much of punishment these devout oblations made with love remit, neither an angel from heaven nor any mortal man who has been inspired in this matter can resolve this question.

## That this is so

If anyone would understand that the greater or lesser degree of the remission of penance is measured by at least three things — namely, the quality of the devotion of the one who comes forward; the greater or lesser devotion of those interceding; and the greater or smaller number of those for whom they intercede — since what the offerer brings can itself be a factor: hence if a person merits better in his soul somehow, he will merit more when he comes most devoutly as one making satisfaction, as when all the churches pray for him simultaneously and he merits still more at that time. If all these things coincide, more of the punishment is remitted to the one making the offering. But if the devotion of all — or of some — was minimal or nonexistent, little or nothing of the punishment is remitted. And since no mortal can know how great the devotion of those interceding is, nor how great and of what kind the devotion of the offerer is, it is clear that no one knows how much of punishment is remitted through such absolutions. If someone objects: cannot a person make offerings at three churches with equal devotion, so that there will be a proportional division, that is, so that three years’ penance or a hundred days’ penance are remitted if there are several portions of penance — and so the person is fully absolved through the three churches? This can indeed happen, and we cannot \[say otherwise\] in the case of one to whom this has been revealed from heaven. And if some priest has said that truly all punishment in this world is remitted to that person, let us answer that such a priest should not advise them to cease from earning merit; on the contrary, by way of caution, he should urge a person to become more devout and thus merit better and more as one who is more devout.
