---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 19va
pdf_page: 42
sortable_pagination_id: 42.1
---

these things are accustomed to avail for those on whose behalf they intercede — that is, dead labor \[opus mortuum\], as when someone \[offers\] a special power of virtues to anyone at all. And that verse: “Thou hast broken my vineyard.” The deceased is similar to one who offers the Eucharist, because by whomever it is offered it avails those for whom it is offered if they are devoutly present. Similarly, the office of the universal Church avails them, because one part of the universal Church is militant on earth, another triumphant in heaven, and together they say “let us pray” in the plural. It is assumed that the whole Church is present when some of them intercede for the aforesaid offerers; if all of them say \[this\] for such persons. Those other things that are done in the church by those in mortal sin avail neither themselves nor others.

Hence the one who has risen for Matins for forty years, while always remaining in mortal sin, merits nothing either for himself or for others, because his prayers are made with an impediment, and on account of vices Gregorius says: one easily turns aside from justice if he \[remains\] in sin. If this person has consumed money in the \[sinful\] cause, because he rose not for the profit of souls but for wretched gain, then as for the souls on whose behalf he received \[payment\] throughout all that time, he has defrauded all of them, because nothing profited him. If without any of this their goods \[might have been\] directed toward the final testing, the poor could have summoned him and usefully demanded this from him. Hence without any doubt we consider that he is bound to restitution of everything, if it is asked whether those pseudo-communions \[avail\].

## VI.

It is asked whether those who carry certificates of this kind of relaxations are to be heard. It seems so, because they commonly publish \[the indulgences\] under this form: “Whoever shall have made the smallest offering in any manner toward the building of that church is a participant in the relaxation.” Furthermore they say that through such offerings a soul of another can be redeemed from hell, or some portion of punishment removed. All these \[claims\] we set aside for the following reason: from hell there is no redemption, nor any diminution of any punishment.
