---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 19vb
pdf_page: 42
sortable_pagination_id: 42.2
---

any part of punishment could be removed from anyone, then by the same reasoning any other \[punishment\] could equally be blotted out, which is impossible. The solution: a distinction must be drawn here, because the greater number of these relaxations that are heard \[carry\] the taint of heresy and falsehood, or \[else they are made by\] simple and naively credulous people. If we speak of those that introduce heresy, they lead to inquiry; they are thieves and robbers who are not to be heeded — these who return from the Church, because they are traffickers mixing water with wine. They come to us clothed in sheep’s clothing, but within \[they are ravening wolves\]. In sum, a thief is still further distinguished at the root. Some in the Church are good shepherds and are to be cherished; some are hirelings yet good \[enough\] to be tolerated in their place; some are thieves and robbers and these are to be expelled. If, however, the simple ones are adulterating the word of God and issuing such decrees of relaxation, they can be tolerated in their dealings with us. Furthermore, the following double question must be raised: whether a prelate who sends out such persons should refund to the fabric of the church what the pseudo-\[collectors\] have gathered far and wide from everyone for the sake of pillage; or whether a prelate who has letters from those whom he sends — if they are such deceitful traffickers — should entrust them with proclaiming such decrees of relaxation; or whether the preacher of such a decree, who was sent \[out\], should be made to restrain himself from gathering wretched offerings, \[given that\] these princely offerings \[are meant\] for the building of a church. It seems that the prelate ought in some measure to have authority over such persons. But if he acts with authority, and \[the question is one\] of authority — not of how much the offerer brings according to his means and poverty — then truly one who offers from plunder does likewise and \[acts\] similarly before the eyes of the Father. Since, therefore, many of the aforesaid offerers can be shown to offer from plunder rather than what would be permissible, \[the prelate\] ought not to allow an uncertain evil, and we concede this. Hence, to limit valid \[offerings\], he ought to write in the certificate of relaxation, under pain of excommunication, to forbid robbers.
