---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 20ra
pdf_page: 43
sortable_pagination_id: 43.1
---

or usurers from offering anything toward the building \[of a church\] that comes from plunder, since that would conduce rather to confusion than to the relaxation of penance. Nor should a trafficker be sent for this purpose. Rather, \[the prelate\] ought to send simple and God-fearing men, and to enjoin upon them that they should not presume to have an understanding of the Scriptures and that they should not inject heresies into the Church. If it is asked what a devout and simple priest with the cure of souls should do when he finds one of these men secretly sent by a bishop or metropolitan, carrying a certificate of relaxation and spreading heresies and falsehoods as we have touched upon above, so as to acquire in any manner whatever any offerings — if the priest admits such a person, he knows that his whole small congregation will be thrown into confusion and scandals will be sown; if he rejects him, the country people rise up against him in the matter and, following the bishop, hold out threats of excommunication to fleece him and drive him from his parish. By way of resolution, we will say and give wholesome counsel: when the priest knows that such a person is a trafficker and a pernicious influence upon his flock, he should by no means admit him — nor a thief or a robber either — following that Gospel saying: “Beware of false prophets,” and so on. If he is obliged to suffer something, let him consult such a person and further counsel him regarding obedience. He should rather allow himself to be excommunicated and driven from his parish than endure so great a scandal and so great a loss to his flock. Likewise, whether relaxations of this kind can be granted only by prelates within the Church, and whether commutations of penances \[may also be granted\] when the cause is known. Concerning this: although a person who had hoped to undertake penance from a priest may have become too exhausted by a long pilgrimage and too feeble in health, or lame, so that he cannot complete that pilgrimage, the priest of that place, recognizing \[the situation\] in the penitential forum, can commute that punishment into another punishment — namely, into pure almsgiving, prayers, and bodily mortification — so that what he would spend on pilgrimage, he may spend on
