---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 20rb
pdf_page: 43
sortable_pagination_id: 43.2
---

the poor, at the priest’s discretion, or toward the building of a church or the like. Similarly, consider the case of one who through prolonged nocturnal vigils has become weak and feeble in the brain, and who from birth cannot frequently remember having communicated. A priest taking note of this can worthily commute that punishment into another of equivalent weight, as he shall judge expedient. In these matters a twofold question arises: one concerning the flattery of priests, another from their greed; for by these two causes priests are drawn and captured into excusing sins — some, without examining the cause, in the former \[spirit of\] flattery, while others flatter the wealthy and say: “Such-and-such a punishment is a great burden of vigils. It pleases me; I shall commute it into the feeding of the poor or the singing of Masses. I take it upon my own soul, and I absolve you from the punishment enjoined on you.” And now that restraint, which was truly necessary for that person’s guilt, has been removed — through which it may come about that such a person finds \[a willing priest\]. This \[priest\] gives them license to wander freely through the fields of licentiousness, so that if any advantage or any dignity should come to him from them, the priest acts accordingly; indeed this commutation of punishment leads to confusion. Furthermore, on this matter there is a more serious charge: certain priests instruct their penitents in an ugly fashion, that they should come to them every day, imposing nothing \[substantial\] on them, and at the same time pledging them toward bodily mortification so as to profit from the celebration of Masses. And now they have penitents fund the celebration of trentals \[thirty Masses\] and annuals \[year-long series of Masses\], and thus without examining the cause they not merely overlook but suppress the punishment. Indeed the stewards of religious houses are held \[accountable\] more perniciously in the penitential forum, because their authority to counsel seems greater there and they persuasively urge robbers, princes, and all their \[associates\] to build new altars, to appoint
