---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 20va
pdf_page: 44
sortable_pagination_id: 44.1
---

hired monks or other mercenaries as agents there. All these simoniacs diminish their punishments through such intercessions, and \[these stewards\] also induce them to assign to the church the endowments of such Masses and intercessions, whether from their own goods or from plunder or from however unlawfully acquired goods. If you have discernment between the clean and the unclean, all these things and things like them are confirmed by bishops, approved by metropolitans, while the lord pope is silent and does not resist.

### Question

whether simple laypeople who through affected or gross ignorance do not know the merits of these matters in law act meritoriously in them. It seems so, because such lesser persons are bound to believe their superiors, especially in matters that concern settled rules, as in charitable distributions and the celebration of Masses. But against this, it is already plain to barbers, and the common people already cry out for the clergy’s confusion, that all these things are directed toward profit and not toward the gain of souls; for what is more disgraceful is that the people already cry out in condemnation of the clergy: that all the sacraments, Masses, prebends, cathedral sees, and the like are carried in the purses of those who sing them. For when people give \[money\], they \[the clergy\] absolve from excommunication and from other censures, and immediately they fraudulently excommunicate or accuse someone for money, or the sacraments are withheld. And since they spare everyone, and the matter can readily be stated — whether it is done for the salvation of souls, or rather for their confusion — the question is whether these agents ought to be heard in such commutations. Solution: there are three things here that pertain to the resolution of these matters, which must be utterly eradicated as putrid and infected roots. The first is flattery. The second is greed. The third is collusion \[pactio\]. For these are the three roots of simony. Therefore one must resist these three roots of simony and say with Peter: “Thy money be unto perdition with thee.”
