---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 20vb
pdf_page: 44
sortable_pagination_id: 44.2
---

with thee unto perdition. All those trafficking agents who commute punishments through flattery, greed, or unjust collusion in the manner described above — since they do this to the destruction of souls — are not to be heeded, for they do nothing other than act against good morals. And the lord pope cannot dispense against good morals. Furthermore, according to Gregorius regarding payment for the arrangement of Masses \[conventio missarum\]: since it can neither be sold nor bought — yet a penitent or another person may and should devoutly request the priest to keep them in mind during Masses — if anyone were to be induced to celebrate because one person is perhaps at that time in mortal sin: \[we speak of\] the poor man and those who are consecrated each day. I am accordingly astonished that these new traffickers are so capable, or that there is such a renewal with such great purity of conscience, that they dare to celebrate every single day, when even the most worthy man sometimes approaches the sacrament unworthily. If it is asked whether a prelate ought to admit those who preach this traffic and all these abominations — sending out \[agents\] to carry reliquaries and relics of saints with a collecting-box, to receive offerings indiscriminately for the fabric of a church — it seems that he should by no means permit this, because to confer such things is nothing other than to exchange swords for smoke \[i.e., something real for something worthless\]. Moreover, it is unseemly and contrary to all authority and propriety for a bishop to have them imitate the dead. After death certain \[saints\] are at rest, having despised their \[worldly goods\] in a sense, as is clear from the Gospel: for when the body of a certain deceased \[holy man\] was first placed in a silver, marble, and golden casket, it finally came to rest in a wooden one. Truly, the dead man thus teaches that silver and gold are to be despised, which he despised for a long time while living. This is also testified by the blessed Firminus of Amiens, for when the questors wished to carry his \[body\].
