---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 21ra
pdf_page: 45
sortable_pagination_id: 45.1
---

body from the place of his martyrdom to be displayed, if it could be carried away from that place by certain persons — thus it is clear that sacred relics should not be displayed for being shown about or for being sold or for tempting God through trivial means, according to that saying: “Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.” After this, the question is raised whether a priest can in any way in the penitential forum commute into some other punishment the restitution to be made by a penitent — for instance: this man has stolen many things and is in poor health; he has little of what he took by force. Can those things be conceded to him and \[released\] by the Church, since \[the wronged parties\] have nothing from which to live? And in fastings and prayers

### let them intercede for those they have despoiled.

Moreover, behold someone who does have what he should restore and who has stolen many things. His priest or the lord pope imposes upon him fasting for all his sins and making amends to all. If he converts, if through persuasion he can acquire something toward restitution, the question is whether this pledge \[pegnatio\] can redeem this restitution. The argument holds that it cannot.

For from the mouth of the Savior we have in Leviticus: “If the mark of leprosy is in the warp or in the weft or in the skin, white or reddish” — the gloss says white \[signifies\] one’s own glory, or reddish another’s. “If he remains a leper, he shall be cast out beyond the camp; if, however, the leprosy has halted, that place shall be broken off and cut away from the solid \[foundation\] by the priest.” He says leprosy is present in the usurer and in the robber, because \[one who is\] tenacious in plunder or usury, if he does not restore what was taken, his portion is cut away from the solid — that is, from the solidity of the Church — unless he restores what was taken. Therefore, since no one can dispense against the Lord’s commandment, neither the pope nor anyone else can commute the restitution to be made either into a pledge or into anything else. Likewise, as the authority says: “Leprosy in the warp is leprosy in the intention; leprosy in the weft is leprosy in the operation; leprosy in the skin is leprosy in the mortification of the flesh” — that is, because a person prematurely seizes \[worldly things\] or glories in adornments for himself. The priest, strict in all these things, must cut them all away from the penitent, and must not thus commute one punishment by exchanging it for another.
