---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 21va
pdf_page: 46
sortable_pagination_id: 46.1
---

\[collection from\] God \[on his behalf\] and, as it were, possessing \[such goods\], since he himself fights for the Church — and therefore the lord pope grants him the revenues of tithes for a time. The prince of a kingdom who fights for the peace of the Church can lawfully possess such things as he has confiscated from his subjects in their defense.

## Solution

We say that all tithes belong to the bishop and to the Church. Nevertheless, since they hold justice over all by \[feudal\] tenure, yet the lord pope can grant their fruits for a time to a soldier and can absolve him from the fruits already received and from the tallages and exactions that they \[i.e., soldiers or princes\] wrongfully impose on their subjects; because if he can absolve them of these things, he ought rather to compel them to make restitution. Hence the Lord in Leviticus commands the priest to place some of the blood of the victim upon the tip of the right ear, upon the thumbs of the right hand and of the right foot, and to sprinkle toward the Lord a portion of blood seven times. By the right hand \[we understand\] works; by the right foot, devout affection. There we say: by authority, through the sevenfold sprinkling understand perfect remission. The priest in all these matters must cleanse the penitent and remit sins through him in the sevenfold manner, so that nothing wrongly done remains. Hence the Lord there commands him to shave all the hairs of the head, the eyebrows, the beard, and all the hairs of the whole body. By the hairs of the head, \[understand\] the thoughts of the mind; by the beard, the ministry by which he has raised himself up; by the eyebrows, pride; by the other hairs of the private parts, a vile and shameful affection; by the garments, deeds are to be understood. And there the authority says that a priest must purge all these things in the penitent. Thus, therefore, the chaplain of a prince must fulfil all of these things concerning the prince in the penitential forum. And if the prince is found in any matter to be contumacious — that is, unwilling to restore everything in full — the chaplain must in secret forbid him the sacraments of the Church and refuse to participate with him in anything.
