---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 21vb
pdf_page: 46
sortable_pagination_id: 46.2
---

After this, a question is raised concerning one who was outside the Church and had been approaching \[heretics\] to corrupt the \[Church’s\] flock and subjects. In the house \[illegible\] returning to the Lord, \[illegible\] of the Church or \[illegible\] concerning heresy or subsequently through confession \[illegible\] announces a punishment to such a person. If the one confessing was returning to the Lord and corrupting the flock and the subject, if \[illegible\] punishment \[illegible\] his confession and \[illegible\] the corrector was \[illegible\].

## Solution

Take this and let him confess in secret. Forbid him every act of returning to the lord \[of heresy\] and forbid him ever to approach the assembly of heretics; let him live apart and perform works of penance \[illegible\] and be steadfast in this. If he has made solemn public confession of heresy and has publicly confessed, according to the Lord in Leviticus: let \[illegible\] the head laid bare, his mouth always cry out that he is unclean and impure; let him dwell alone outside the camp, lest so great \[a contagion\] \[illegible\] remain manifest. His head laid bare and his mind \[illegible\] and \[illegible\] devastated, his mouth \[illegible\] of the corrected, lest he spread the fervor \[illegible\] by speaking, nor \[let him spread\] doctrine \[illegible\]. Let him cry out that he is a vile sinner by making offering; let him dwell outside \[illegible\] and let him not \[infect\] others and spread \[the infection\]. Such persons, therefore, are first to be judged to live apart until they can truly be proven in the faith; afterwards, if they are found faithful, they ought to be received back into the bosom of the Church; but if not, let them be repelled from the Church.

All the greatest power of confession and the authority of the confessor rests in the keys.

## After the foregoing, we must treat of the keys

First, what the keys are; second, whether there is one key or two; and concerning the uses of the keys. There are those who say that the keys are only one. As they say, the function of a key is to bind and to loose; and because the functions are divided — one of binding, another of loosing — they assert that there are two. This is held by Master Robert Po\[illegible\].
