---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 23rb
pdf_page: 49
sortable_pagination_id: 49.2
---

were brought by those who conferred absolutions through their \[judicial\] hands — in the same way they speak of this case: when the Lord through contrition has remitted all sins and all penalty for sin, \[the penitent\] comes to the priest. The priest absolves him, and no one else if he goes to another, and so it belongs to God. And yet those \[priests\] remit nothing to him. We, however, wishing \[to state the truth\], say that one thing is the penitential forum which is within the Church Militant — the hidden arena of reward and election in which the Lord, going before all ministers by infusion, purification, and the power of contrition, remits all the sins of the penitent. And each \[of the two forums\] has its own mode of remitting sins in its own forum. For when \[the priest\] perceives the contrition and perceives that God has remitted everything by his own authority, he then approves in his forum everything that the merciful God has done. And as it were by consent he shows the sins of the penitent to be remitted. This showing is called remission, and it profits him greatly. Through such showing \[the Church\] receives the penitent into its bosom, gives him the beginning of all its suffrages, and his spiritual name, to the end that he be among the elect both in number and in merit, that he be a chosen member and can be defended against those outside, because he will have \[a declaration\] from the Church that he has been innocent and perfectly purged. This was shown by the Lord when, having raised Lazarus from the dead and seeing him brought out, he said to his disciples: “Loose him.” \[That is:\] by your manifestation with Lazarus show forth what I have done in raising him to life. And this he showed again when he healed the leprosy: “Show yourselves to the priests” — meaning: just as I have cleansed the leprosy of your sin, so through the priests \[he\] shows them to be cleansed, that they may be received into the first-fruits of the suffrages of the Church. And we have many analogies for this. Certainly, someone has been apprehended for a serious crime. That person, by the will and authority of the judge, is sentenced to hanging. Then the king of mercy
