---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 23va
pdf_page: 50
sortable_pagination_id: 50.1
---

in his hall remits \[the condemned man’s\] guilt and death — and this without the knowledge of the prefect of whatever jurisdiction who had issued the decree. For this person to be fully absolved before the \[common\] people, it is necessary that the king’s decree be promulgated and broadcast, showing him to have been loosed by the king, and thereby removing envy from the people. Likewise, suppose someone comes to the priest as an imperfect penitent \[semiplene penitens\], falsely believing himself sufficiently \[disposed\], and yet the priest absolves him as if he were a true penitent. It follows that the priest looses this person as he looses others. And the priest looses him in that he shows him to be loosed, and the priest shows him to be loosed.

### Solution.

A threefold absolution befits the priest, and a threefold binding. The first absolution is the showing of absolution, which takes place in the sacramental forum as described. The second is that by which he remits the whole penalty or relaxes a part of the penalty that was to be imposed. The third is that by which a member is received back into the bosom of the Church and into the Church’s suffrages, and becomes a member of that wonderfully fortified \[body\]. Similarly, a threefold binding befits the priest. The first is \[that\] by which he declares the sins of his subjects and the penalty that is imposed for sin. The second is that by which he excommunicates and separates from the precincts of the Church and takes away the sacraments. The third is that by which he delivers a penitent and a heretic into the hands of Satan to be slain in hell. Hence the reason that heretics are excommunicated even after death. We say that when a priest unworthily absolves a half-penitent \[semiplene penitentem\] in his presence, that absolution is of value not for the actual relaxation of penalty, but rather for the easier obtaining of \[that\] relaxation — because \[the person\] is thus drawn toward the Church and urged \[toward full penance\]. And thus the showing of that absolution is of incidental value. After these things, ask whether the priest who is in mortal sin holds the aforesaid keys, by which he either binds or looses. It seems that he does, because the Lord in the Gospel restrains such persons — that is, the Pharisees — from \[acting\] under less \[weighty\] accusation, where he says: “Let him who is without sin cast the first stone” — that is, against the adulteress — to
