---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 23vb
pdf_page: 50
sortable_pagination_id: 50.2
---

those who were \[gathered\] from the least to the greatest — for since they were in mortal sin, in that forum no one dared \[to cast\] the stone of accusation. The Psalmist condemns \[the polluted priest\] in the psalm: “But to the sinner God said: why do you declare my justices, and take my covenant in your mouth?” The gloss \[says\]: “polluted” — it says: you who are polluted assume my covenant and those things that are in my covenant, as also the authority of binding and loosing. Likewise: “nor take up hands that heal another’s wounds.” For the one who would absolve another must himself be clean in the flock, \[healing\] through another’s wounds. The clean priest, healing another’s \[wounds\], is healed through absolution. Likewise Gregorius says elsewhere: “Those who, placed in this flesh, have the power of binding and loosing hold the teaching of the Apostles and \[do so in such a way\].” Therefore the unclean priest neither binds nor looses. Against \[this\] are the following authorities: one is that of Hieronymus: “At God’s \[bar\] the sentence of the priest requires the life of those judged.” Another of Gregorius: “Some, while they busy themselves more with the life of priests than with their own, fall into the pit of error, attending to the fact that those more conspicuous \[in conduct\] would harm \[others\] by their admonitions if they \[the priests\] are still acquiring \[virtue\]” — and so it is said in canon: “A sentence justly imposed by a pastor is justly held.” What then is to be said on this point? It seems to us that a distinction must be made here: for the priest is either notorious \[for his wickedness\] or he is concealed. If he is notorious for living wickedly, he ought neither to bind nor to loose in the exercise of the keys, nor \[ought he to perform\] the office of keys at all. Likewise we say that such a one is suspended from the office of public preaching and from celebrating Masses. And in such a case the aforesaid authorities apply. If however \[his wickedness\] is hidden and can be tolerated, and if he binds or looses, his binding or absolution holds — just as the making \[of the sacrament\] in baptism is firmly believed \[to hold\] when administered by a sinful
