---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 24rb
pdf_page: 51
sortable_pagination_id: 51.2
---

as one to be loosed; and after this comes that last \[judgment\] which is approved by the angelic court of the heavenly and triumphant Church. That which is in the authority \[of Scripture\] he rightly approves, and it is properly spoken from the lower order. But “whatever he shall have bound on earth by Peter’s judgment shall be bound in heaven” by the approval of the heavenly court — because the pastors of the Church Triumphant in heaven approve what the pastors of the Church Militant do here below, for between the one and the other there is no dissent. God indeed, when he judges rightly, looses simultaneously on earth and in heaven. In answer to what follows, let us say: when priests bind someone too harshly, that binding is a mortal sin; and God permits that binding to be done — but it pleases him insofar as it is an action, and does not please him insofar as it is a deformity. For in every actual sin there are two things: the action and its deformity. The action alone pleases God insofar as it pertains to a created thing; but its deformity does not please God, nor does it please him, nor is it in the nature of things. Hence every such binding, in all its dimensions, pleases God insofar as it is an action and not insofar as it is a deformity. But its deformity does not please him — for because of it the elect do good, since greatly moved by such examples, they follow mercy.

## But suppose that the false \[priest\] excommunicating someone in excessive error, as is established by the arguments adduced

yet meanwhile the \[excommunicated person\] is not under any cause — does the heavenly court therefore approve such a binding or not?

## Response

God and the heavenly court approve such an action, because good is chosen from it; but \[God\] does not approve the deformity, which in the just \[man\] arose from anger or from a harsh and rampant ignorance. From these things it is clear that

## Whether here the keys \[apply\]

\[such that\] the use of the keys \[extends\] to the use by monks in the cloister. You \[pl.\] ask whether in some case one of them, returning without keys, inflicts harm upon himself. It seems so.
