---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 24va
pdf_page: 52
sortable_pagination_id: 52.1
---

a metropolitan may commit his functions to a suffragan to excommunicate or absolve someone under his jurisdiction, and the suffragan’s \[act of\] binding or absolution holds. By the same reasoning an archdeacon is often delegated his \[bishop’s\] functions, to excommunicate or absolve or suspend. Likewise in an archdeacon just as in a bishop, as I prove thus. Suppose a subdeacon or acolyte is delegated by the curia \[of Rome\], and the lord pope confers upon him the power of binding and loosing by virtue of his legation. If such a one comes to us bearing letters of his legation, all would obey, even if he were brutish and nearly a layman. Hence if such a person suspends or excommunicates or absolves, it holds. By the same reasoning the same holds in the case of an archdeacon delegated by his archbishop, together with \[his\] order. The reason that such persons can absolve or bind, even though they hold the keys in some way — whether given to them or spoken of as held — even though they are not priests, is proved from the Levitical examples: for it is read in Leviticus that Moses consecrated Aaron and his sons by the Lord’s command, and yet if \[someone\] secretly put on the priestly vestments in disguise, he nonetheless fulfilled the function of a priest, and his consecration held, because it was done by the authority of a superior and by the law of God. By the same reasoning absolutions or bindings hold if done by the authority of a superior. Another argument, which pertains more specifically to bishops: by the example that in a case of emergency a bishop can commit to someone the authority to say: “I sign you with the seal of the cross and the chrism of salvation.” By the same reasoning the lord pope can delegate the aforesaid rites. But against this — you say that all these are such that these clerics have the use of the keys even though they are not priests. By the same reasoning you will say that an entirely lay person can have the use of the keys by reason of a superior: for instance, if the lord pope commits a case to someone to be heard, and he hears it through to definition
