---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 24vb
pdf_page: 52
sortable_pagination_id: 52.2
---

and to decide it and pass sentence. Likewise, the lord pope confers that same authority upon a layman who \[acts\] as legate in the said manner; thus \[the legate\], invested with that same authority, can bind and loose. By the same reasoning he can impose and relax penance. By the same reasoning an abbess can absolve or bind her nun by mandate of a superior. Likewise an abbot who is a monk in a place of weeping and otherwise doubly bound in a cloistral place holds the use of the keys; and if the lord pope confers \[the emblems\] upon him — as he often confers upon such persons the horn, staff, and ring — this proves that these are not merely signs of binding and loosing. But suppose \[this happens\] in an unjust exemption, against all reason, with no distinction known or willed, \[bringing\] penalties in the confusion and ruin of his soul. For here, some abbot under a friendly bishop — as the arguments run discursively through the fields of license when \[the abbot\] is altogether brutish, like a Hebrew, and without any understanding — obtains the horn, staff, and ring; and thus the visitant with the use of the keys approaches his flock, where he absolves those who were bound and binds those who were to be bound, and a counterfeit sacrament comes about. Here abbots absolve \[those\] bound by the bishop by pretense of their exemption, and bind those who were to be bound, and thus defile themselves and a multitude of mothers. But against this: the lord pope rightly cannot \[confer what\] he cannot \[confer\] by right, nor can this one \[act upon\] another’s flock unless by right — but he has no right. Furthermore the lord pope cannot confer such a privilege of exemption upon him, because this would be against conscience and good morals. For the authority says: a prelate could dispose of the ordering of the Church as much as he is able in administration, but he cannot act in \[his\] administration so as to confer such a privilege of the office of steward upon one so unworthy — proving this by analogy: just as it is possible to confer archdeaconates or deaneries upon a child of one year. If this were allowed to happen
