---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 25rb
pdf_page: 53
sortable_pagination_id: 53.2
---

says of Phinehas: “They eat the flesh, they strip the skin from above, they break the bones.” This persecution extends broadly in cathedral \[churches\] and among those elected \[to office\]. For instance: an ambitious prelate, before he has come to deserve \[removal\], having been able to be appointed bishop, wishing by whatever means to ascend somewhat to \[his own\] goal. Made infirm \[in virtue\] and yet pregnant with armed prayers, he introduces himself into Plato’s chair and though he admits himself to be less capable, \[he places himself\] to carry out actions \[of power\] over the wretched people. He summons the most unworthy and base of his relatives — rural \[priests\], exacting deans — and those keys which he has simoniacally acquired he displays to all, saying: “You will be enriched with me.” And those coming \[to him\] in advance, one obtained an archdeaconate, another obtained a deanery. Then he commands: “Arm yourselves, all of you, with these keys. Run through the sword of Nero and Dathan, ranging about: suspend this one, murmur against that one, absolve others for nine years. Loosen the reins of the twisted purses of souls, pursue and comb the errant ear, and drive out cowardice, so that each is forced to enter \[my fold\] or to despair or to abandon the faith — donate to us his skin and his flesh and his bones and incorporate them into us.” Then the common people, thus afflicted, cry: “Who will save us from those who should save us?” But what would he \[the prelate\] himself do in order to reclaim \[authority\]? Or what manner of person is that someone who in the said condition can in no way submit voluntarily or of necessity? He can legitimately obtain neither burial, nor the Eucharist, nor the sacraments of baptism, penance, or the other sacraments — unless he admits the required small and large \[fees\]; when all these \[abuses\] are well known and clearer than light. We can further reckon \[the extent of the harm\]. In response let us say without any doubt that a layman, while he remains in the state of laity, can in no way owe or exercise the use of the keys for binding and loosing.
