---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 25va
pdf_page: 54
sortable_pagination_id: 54.1
---

or for imposing penalties. And if \[the layman\] were constituted as a delegated judge, he himself should not pronounce sentence in a community, but should rather delegate the sentence by the authority of that delegation to some priest — just as when a layman, if you confess to him at the point of death and have no one else to whom you can confess, should not impose penance himself, but should indicate what penance is to be imposed.

## Concerning the legate sent by the lord pope, we say

If he is a priest, just as if he holds keys, so also if he has received by the mandate of the lord \[pope\] the delegated use of the \[sacramental\] element, he receives it from the authority of the legation and of the one sending him — the use of the office by special privilege, derived from the general use of the keys. Since the lord \[gives this\] to all. And from that privilege he now also \[may\] suspend certain persons and bar others from entering the church and from participation in the sacraments. But \[the legate\] ought to absolve penitents with these keys or assess their penalties. \[He should\] thus show what \[penances\] are to be imposed, and to whom, and in what manner, having a certain power by which he can generally bind and loose and impose penances. Likewise from the said privilege regarding the archdeacon who is not a priest and was sent by his \[superior\]: because he does not hold the use of the keys himself, but \[the authority\] is then poured into him from the general use of the keys.

## Concerning an abbess, we say

that she neither holds the power to bind or to loose, but according to the rule of blessed Benedict, who instituted certain disciplinary penalties for the delinquent, she may select five of these and relax them, and say to her nun: “I enjoin upon you to fast on bread and water,” or “to remain in your cell for such a time.” Concerning one elected for episcopal consecration, we say that he emits \[his authority\] from the authority of the electing councils, and assumes in the election a certain authority — because the elect, as they say, can bind, from the fact that he has been chosen for the execution of such an office. And to such a \[bishop-elect\] a lesser author-
