---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 27rb
pdf_page: 57
sortable_pagination_id: 57.2
---

\[submitting\] to a \[lord\] who dictates to God and \[God’s\] words, and they confirm \[this\]: if some nobleman is excommunicated, one owes him no obedience \[illegible\] in \[matters concerning\] the excommunicated. Solution: those canons speak in different cases. For the first canon admits those persons to associate with their excommunicated lord who belong to his own household, namely wife, son, and daughter, and it is \[therefore\] said \[to apply to them\]. The other canon speaks in the case where the prince himself personally attacks the Church and resists the lord pope who governs the whole realm. For in such a case the pope can absolve sworn soldiers from their \[oath of\] fealty to him. As is shown by that chapter, and by others. Suppose, furthermore, that the contrary occurs — that those excommunicated, such as a son or daughter, who owe loyalty to the lesser king, must associate with him, as in “Causa XV, question I, chapter on the daughter.” Moreover, that a sentence pronounced in many churches binds more heavily than if it were pronounced in one only: this is to be understood in the sense that it does not \[simply mean\] that if pronounced once, the excommunicated is placed outside the Church; if those outside the Church are equally excommunicated, then several \[sentences\] bind more than one. Solution: when someone bound in many churches is absolved in one, he still remains bound in another; he is more \[bound\] while excommunicated in two churches than if he were bound by one sentence in one church. A hundred bonds bind in a hundred churches; but this one bond holds \[them all\]. If several excommunications bind more than one, we say in reply to those who say that to excommunicate is to place outside: but to excommunicate is \[to make one\] unworthy of entering the church, and of the communion of brothers, and of the reception of the sacraments, and thus unworthy to receive the body \[of Christ\]. For by one sentence someone is first rendered unworthy of all these things, then more unworthy, then most unworthy; and so, as others say, the first sentence distances \[one\] from the communion of the Church, the second distances more, the third most. But suppose that someone
