---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 27va
pdf_page: 58
sortable_pagination_id: 58.1
---

is unjustly excommunicated and does not know that he is excommunicated, so be it. This person is corporally and spiritually part of the Church. Corporally, because each day he is bodily present with others in the church. Spiritually, because he is in a state of grace and is worthy of the communion of the Church, and is not excluded from the Church nor in any way distanced from the Church as someone who is not excommunicated. But if he associates \[with a community\] under a sentence of his pastor, whether \[that sentence is\] justly or unjustly pronounced, it holds; and the sentence in judgment — which truly is not excommunication \[in the proper sense\] — cannot make him unworthy of the Church and the reception of her sacraments and communion, or cause him to be reputed unworthy. Hence we say that although this person is unworthy of the communion of the Church, he is nonetheless reputed unworthy by the sentence of the pastor, which must be observed; and in no way is it worthy to repute him — whether corporally or spiritually part of the Church — as one who has imbibed the authority of excommunication. Likewise, no one.

## VII

\[can\] dispense against \[the precepts of\] the New and Old Testaments. But the Apostle \[says\]: “If anyone named among us is a fornicator, or covetous, or an idolater, with such a one do not even eat” — this belongs to the integrity of the New Testament. Therefore Gregory VII \[could not\] dispense against that. And if that exception which he made concerning wives and sons and servants — with whom he grants communion with their excommunicated lord — holds, \[it is objectionable,\] since the Apostle says in general: if anyone, of whatever condition, is called a lord and is named as covetous or impure, let no one eat with him — neither wife, nor son, nor servant. Moreover, the \[church\] fathers said concerning the same passage: “If anyone is named either by known infamy or by sentence, do not eat with him.” By known infamy — because if he is named by known infamy and is found contumacious, he is to be excommunicated; if by sentence, he is already excommunicated, and thus all such a person is to be avoided. Likewise, often.

## VIII

it happens with him that public prostitutes, manifest usurers, persons named by known infamy and found incorrigible, raise the question: whether a bishop is obligated
