---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 27vb
pdf_page: 58
sortable_pagination_id: 58.2
---

to excommunicate in general all such persons, and those who publicly keep a concubine, because the Apostle says: “Rebuke the one who sins before all.” And it is clear that one may plainly excommunicate such persons, and all such persons are held to be excommunicated just as Paul excommunicated the Corinthian. And to the same effect is that authority on the same passage: “if anyone is named,” and even if he spoke about different modes, it is glossed thus for those. For now, so that I may treat \[a person\] as excommunicated, and thus this is to be maintained at the outset and \[it is possible\] as it were to freely impose \[this sentence on\] the whole multitude. And to the same effect is that authority from the Gospel: “Do not root up the darnel lest perhaps you root up the wheat along with it.” There \[the text\] says that this is to be omitted where the \[ruler, in uprooting\] the darnel, could draw along with it a portion of the multitude, and \[the darnel\] brings no one along who is excluded — lest such persons be exempted if there is a just cause — as is evident from the son of Nicholaus, through whom he excommunicated the king. He himself \[made\] the said \[judgment\] about certain persons. Solution: neither the New nor the Old Testament allows anyone to dispense against this; but it belongs to the lord pope himself to determine the statements, to find them, or to modify and restrict certain \[provisions\]. And this, if at times he inclines his mind to certain persons — as we believe Gregory did — who, beyond the twelve nearest \[degrees of kinship\] accepted in authentic \[law\], with the exception of other near \[degrees\], \[permits\] contracting \[marriage\] to an unjust degree of consanguinity or affinity. So we can say of Gregory VII in the aforementioned chapter that he, in what he issued, gave a pious dispensation, allowing certain persons who are in effect \[nearly\] within the household right of an excommunicated lord to associate with him — namely wife, sons, and servants. He can prove this regarding the wife in two ways. First thus: “What God has joined, let no man put asunder,” that is, a wife from her husband. Likewise, a wife is bound to render the conjugal debt to her asking husband, and if the excommunicated husband asks, she is bound to render it, and thus to associate with him.
