---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 28ra
pdf_page: 59
sortable_pagination_id: 59.1
---

This we grant. If we must also speak about sons and servants: although fidelity thus binds them to an excommunicated lord, Gregory says that one may lawfully associate with an excommunicated lord. By the same reasoning, and indeed more strongly, a \[canon\] chapter \[holds that one\] may lawfully associate with an excommunicated person, and subjects with a similarly excommunicated bishop. But contrary to this: from the decretal concerning the excommunicated — if the excommunicated person neither binds nor absolves, then his subjects ought not to seek the benefit of absolution from him, nor render him the benefit of obedience, “because nothing concerns them about him who is outside.”

### Solution

If claustral monks are finding their abbot excommunicated and contumacious, they ought not, as we believe, to render him obedience, nor associate with him. We say the same about subjects with respect to their bishop. But Gregory VII brought this consideration to bear: that sons are, as it were, under the guardianship of the father, and that purchased slaves can do nothing against their masters, and cannot separate themselves bodily from them on their own authority, even if they wished to separate from them if they could. He says the same about claustral \[monks\], because they can approach their superiors — the metropolitan of the place or the synod — and likewise also subjects of a bishop.

As for bishops, rectors, and parish priests \[who\] tolerate manifest usurers and public prostitutes and the incorrigible: we say that they ought to excommunicate them and to name them, and having named them, otherwise they sin mortally. And someone is named there culpably — either by confession in legal proceedings, or by conviction in legal proceedings, or by the plain evidence of the matter itself. Let those rural and itinerant deans take note, and those young decretists who say thus and would add these first two members \[of the argument\]. For Augustine says on Genesis, which is to be borne \[in mind\] and added to that passage: “The voice of your brother Abel’s blood.” Where the interlinear gloss says: “The evidence of a committed crime does not need the clamor of accusation.” For if the \[notorious\] clamor of such a usurer is such that, if he wished to deny it, he could not, nor could any ignorance excuse him —
