---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 28rb
pdf_page: 59
sortable_pagination_id: 59.2
---

his \[offense\] is notorious. We say the same about a public prostitute and about a supporter who is publicly and notoriously \[known as such\]. Concerning a prince who is excommunicated, along with a multitude of associates, we say that, for as long as the prince himself desists \[from his offense\], the sentence should be deferred. But if \[the case is\] publicized, regarding which \[something\] is noted, and Nicholaus was confessed by Conrad \[illegible\], \[the prince\] is forthwith excommunicated. And the Cremonese and Colognese \[cases\] show this, because those who gave consent are deposed.

Moreover, the question is raised: whether the suffrages of the Church should be offered or withheld in any respect for the excommunicated. That they should be offered is apparent, because the Church prays for pagans and heretics, who are more pernicious than the excommunicated. Furthermore, the Church is bound to love enemies in charity and is bound to pray for the excommunicated, that their salvation may come about, and that they may return to unity. Moreover, in the Gospel it is said: “Pray for your enemies,” and by the authority of the Gospel one must pray for such persons. Likewise, every person prays for himself. But the Church is bound to love the neighbor as itself, and is therefore bound to pray for every neighbor just as for a communicant \[member\]. But against this, an authority says that it is not fitting to keep or defend such a person, because never — as if a thief were to steal a chalice in some place and when caught were to flee to \[the church’s\] defense of him — should one protect him. By the same reasoning, since a heretic has no church, one should not pray for him.

## Solution

We say that the Church is permitted, both in private and in public prayer \[to pray\] for the excommunicated and for other enemies in this manner: if we pray for the excommunicated under such a form \[as\] that they may no longer corrupt so many of those whom \[the Church\] detests. But pray they must, in the hope that those people may be saved and may come to the unity of the Church. Moreover, since the excommunicated are barred entirely from the communion of the members and from the sacrament of matrimony, it seems that the excommunicated ought not to contract marriage, which they argue.
