---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 29rb
pdf_page: 61
sortable_pagination_id: 61.2
---

who have sworn an oath of fealty to render \[obedience\], and they are called upon by him to follow his banners on a military campaign for the defense of the realm, which they are obligated to defend, and to obey their lord as one who fights on their behalf under feudal tenure, and they are called upon to render bodily military service, or because they are obligated to follow their lord for a twofold reason: one by reason of the sworn oath, the other for the defense of the realm, and likewise for the defense of the Church that wages \[just\] war — unless they relieve their lord who is the prince of the realm. Especially since the Apostle \[says\] to be armed and under God and under the greater \[authorities\] as ministers of God for the punishment of evildoers and the praise of the good. But on the other side: one must obey God more than men, a spiritual lord more than a bodily one, and one must obey the Roman curia as parent of all in all things more than one’s earthly lord. For where your lord is also contumacious and obstinate in contumacy, one ought not to follow him because he who does not resist an error approves it. Likewise it is proved in \[the canon dealing with\] Moses, where it says: “We will render to the Lord the calves of our lips,” thus because what is ours is to render — that is, it was known to render. All the more, therefore, are we bound to fulfill promised oaths; and truly soldiers are presumed to be bound to obey an excommunicated prince by fidelity and service.

The \[canon\] argues by the authority of Ambrosius in that chapter, “Causa XV, question VIII, \[the chapter\] Iulianus,” where Ambrosius says that faithful soldiers, at his command, can defend the public \[good\] \[and\] oppose enemies, because they act against God, or against the Gospel, or the Apostles, or established precepts, as anyone who \[opposes\] the Almighty can do. But finally there is \[the canon of\] “Causa CV, question VI, the penultimate chapter,” where Gregory VII absolves the Fuldenses from the bond of fealty so that they need not obey the excommunicated antipope.

## Solution

Some say that an excommunicated prince can exercise his power to hold his territories, in brief use of that power, whether this \[merely\] comes to pass or whether he commits \[further offense\]
