---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 29vb
pdf_page: 62
sortable_pagination_id: 62.2
---

because the defendant who observes \[the legal requirements\] persists after death. Likewise, no legitimate cause for excommunication is found, because once \[the sentence of\] excommunication is involved, it is said — as \[some\] authority holds — in \[cases of\] simulation, \[whether of those\] who have confessed, or \[those who have been\] convicted, or those \[who are\] notorious, or those associated in such and such a manner — that the excommunication does not reach us. Likewise, the Church communicates with living holders of tithes, with whom living priests communicate; they ought also to communicate with the dead. Therefore, equal restoration ought to be granted to the same \[persons, deceased\]. By the same reasoning, with those dead who by law were excommunicated, \[the Church\] ought to communicate with the dead; and the churches — all of which are tested \[to have been\] excommunicated in the \[Fourth\] Lateran Council. But then what of him who, at the command \[of someone with authority\], advises raising such a large armed multitude and joining such persons at a pressing moment, as one \[might hire\] other mercenary soldiers? General solution: lest a dead person be excommunicated — nor \[should one be excommunicated\] in other ways except \[those who are\] confessed, or convicted, or contumacious, or notorious — but as \[the decretal\] says in its first chapter: a special mandate derogates from a general one, just as a privilege of a certain custom removes \[persons\] from the privilege of the general goods. But let us say that the special canon on the excommunication of heretics derogates from the general, namely through the naming of their crime. Hence in an inquiry, the excommunication of someone is pronounced once, lest the teaching which he left behind in books should be taken as constituted \[authority\]. For the sake of those who were justly excommunicated, absolution after death is granted. Concerning holders of tithes, we say there is a twofold case: one in which a knight holds the full revenues of tithes by concession of the bishop for the benefit of a foundation, and \[this is\] the lawful use of tithes in a case of impossibility \[to collect otherwise\]; the other case is when tithes are unjustly retained by him. In the first case, \[the tithes\] are lawfully held by them. In the second case, they are to be excommunicated without right; and when the priest does not know whether they hold them \[in the first or second manner\], he ought not to excommunicate them until it is legitimately established that they are holding them against the Church; and when neither these nor those \[rights are deprived\], the dead man ought to receive the sacrament in communion.
