---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 31ra
pdf_page: 65
sortable_pagination_id: 65.1
---

Drunkenness excuses no one from falling under the canon if he suffers an unjust punishment, because drunkenness is mere fury for the sake of one’s own punishment. For even in what one ought to render back, the father makes clear that if someone is under a greater excommunication, he cannot be absolved by a lesser \[authority\]. If therefore, regarding a matter of faith, one absolves someone who has not \[actually\] laid violent hands on a cleric, that absolution holds by virtue of the authority of the lord pope. What shall a minor priest do who knows with certainty that this person has fallen under the canon — and this has been announced in his church — and afterward sees his bishop absolving that person of it? He must receive him as such and announce him as absolved.

Furthermore, what shall a simple priest do about that malicious custom of the Gallican church — namely, whenever some parish of the bishop has sworn an oath to observe the customs of the bishop’s courts, to wit: that no one excommunicates or absolves anyone by name except by the special mandate of the bishop, the rural dean, or the archdeacon? For suppose that within his parish he observes, as was said above, certain of his parishioners quarreling or offending in some matter, whom he could easily bring to concord, and the priest might step back; but the rural dean excommunicates such persons only out of love \[for money\] or on the pretext of extracting payment. Say therefore how cunningly that person is a pernicious abettor, and let him make inquiry for such impostors — whether he ought to obey him and expose all those persons to the danger of an oath, or whether it is fitting for him to counsel them.

On the first matter, let us speak together with the cantor of Pisa and say that a minor priest should in no way obey a bishop who absolves one who has fallen under the canon, but may suffer an unjust excommunication and suspension from him. On the next matter, let us say that the priest placed in the said circumstance should appeal to the Roman see, as the said cantor is accustomed to say, from
