---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 32va
pdf_page: 68
sortable_pagination_id: 68.1
---

\[they\] return as one’s own. If for a greater hatred more iniquitously — as if God had remitted him on the condition that he would confess, lest he relapse into any sin. Likewise, the Gospel says: “Go, and sin no more, lest something worse befall you.” And in the psalm: “my sin is ever before me.” Likewise, the same point is confirmed by the discipline of examples. If someone punished for a single grave \[theft from one\] tribe were also poured into another \[tribe\] and returned, all his previous good merits are lost and removed on account of \[that\] sin. On this as to the first: by the same reasoning in evil, sin \[by sin\], all preceding sins return to punishment. The same point is shown by a third example. Surely some thieves who had cut off one ear for theft — in a second equal \[offense\] they cut off another of lesser severity, yet they hang him more, because that theft was more, whether separately or together; but on account of the guilt of all \[crimes\] that are attributed to him, imputed in the last reckoning, all return. So it is with the one who relapses. The third doctor’s example is of one who strikes in a healthy place the site of a wound: since no leap from a healthy place, it is established that this person in wounding at the spot of the scar inflicts a graver injury in that \[place\] than if both had struck equally. The third example is of the freed slave \[manumissus\] and the bond slave: if the freed slave committed an equal offense against his lord, it is established that the one sins more gravely than the other. Analogous is another common example: behold, I received from some prince another castle and many goods which he gave me out of his favor; and I afterward offended him in some matter, on account of which he took back all that had been given to me; and yet I made satisfaction to him for that one offense: all that had been taken away is restored.

## Solution

Certain persons, bringing forward these excuses and defenses for their sins, say that all preceding sins return only for fraternal hatred and not for any other sin. It is the Gospel that speaks of such a sin. From which: greater \[sins return\] for lesser, and vice versa; equal \[sins return\] for equal. But that such opinions are baseless is shown thus: surely some sin equivalent to fraternal hatred is the guilt and punishment of the judge
