---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 33ra
pdf_page: 69
sortable_pagination_id: 69.1
---

diminishes or diminishes it — for one who presses toward strong punishments says that the purpose \[finis\] of doing something that has already been committed requires the frequent repetition of it. We reject these and similar reasonings, and say together with the Cantor of Paris that all sins committed return for one mortal sin. But against this, thus: in sin there are not two substances — the deformity or guilt of sin, and the actions — for the actions that come about in the one who relapses, and the guilt of those actions, do not return, since with the actions they have entirely ceased. Solution. The punishments \[pena\] return — not indeed in stain \[macula\], but in equivalence \[equipollentia\]; for neither the actions return, nor the same guilt numerically \[or\] specifically, but rather their equivalents. But against: God punished the great. Since this person has done sufficient penance, he has atoned for \[those\] sins \[pills\]; and \[God\] has sufficiently punished \[them\]. He would be punished for those \[pills\] again if they return. Likewise, all things return as regards liability to punishment for that person alone who has fully atoned. All the punishment of those \[sins\] returns for that sole person fully; but the punishment of those \[sins\] pressed sufficiently before. And what is sufficient was punished, and by the Church in the place of God. Then further. Likewise: suppose he has made satisfaction for those \[pills\] — is he still to be punished for those \[pills\] which have returned, for which he had already been punished? If all the works of punishment that bore upon him are dead — but that fails, because no good deed goes unrewarded before

### 12

Solution. We say that just as all mortal \[sins\] return for one who relapses mortally, so too the satisfaction for mortal sins recedes for all that have returned. Hence we say that God does not punish the same thing twice. For someone has already received from God so great a grace that he was sufficiently contrite; and through that grace all punishments were blotted out — that \[person being\] truly dead through the abundant \[mercy\] \[ape plurimum frede mortuus\]. When he acts against the good that God had entrusted to him, forgetting the good that God had entrusted to him, in death he renders back evil for it.
