---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 33vb
pdf_page: 70
sortable_pagination_id: 70.2
---

with the returning guilts; and whoever is in one guilt or several is \[somewhat\] guilty, and whoever is \[even a little\] guilty and more guilty is whoever is simply guilty — and is somewhat deserving of punishment in hell and more so. By the same reasoning, the good person is somewhat deserving of reward and more so. Solution. To the first: contempt is not taken in a threefold sense, because what signifies action from passion before, and what the second claims — that a sin arises from contempt — it is therefore rather the case that contempt is a locution indicating a circumstance of the sin, considered in something in one of two ways: from the genus of sin, having noted the common circumstances in that verse — “who, what, where, through whom, how often, why, in what manner, whereby” \[quis, quid, ubi, per quos, quotiens, cur, quomodo, quibus auxiliis\]. Where the sin is of a greater genus, and where there are more circumstances, there the sin arises from greater contempt. And contempt is twofold — namely, proximate and remote, accompanying and predisposing. The proximate is that from which the sin comes about. The remote is that very thing in respect of which we thus speak of the proximate and remote will, of the proximate and remote motion of free choice. Thus however meek as regards the furious one and the patient who relives \[the injury\]: to which \[people\] sin happens — the one from contempt, which is sought in those who in actual fact have committed sins whose guilts return. For a guilt returns with that person if it arises from some contempt that is now present — namely, if from the act of contempt which he had previously held toward the evil of homicide or adultery, and the one \[thing\] is said: every sin arises from contempt — this is to be understood of actual sin, and likewise of guilt \[reatus\] or stain \[macula\]. To the next we say previously: preaching, if it is a circumstance of fornication, such a return rather requires the returning guilts. To the other we say that whenever the terms “equal” or “the same” are joined with an action together with this adverb “equally” or some \[similar\] term in a painted case \[pictori casu\].
