---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 34vb
pdf_page: 72
sortable_pagination_id: 72.2
---

\[seeks\] to demonstrate. Those two things are called \[equal\], for whatever two returning \[sins\] that are yours are equal to each other. Freely — two sins, one great and one small, were therefore equal; and by the same reasoning all the other aforesaid \[sins\] of one person were equal to each other — which is manifestly false. For it is not the case that the lapse of any sin causes the returning sins to become equal, and therefore all such excuses \[fail\] when sin fully relapses. Let us say candidly that all sins return in as great a quality as they were when they were committed, as is demonstrated. But one who persists in confession must acknowledge all those things that have returned, since those circumstances aggravate the sin and malice of this person, to the end that the space of medicine might suffice to cure it, because the state is prescribed in its fullness and summit in narrow straits, and if he wishes to confess fully he must recount everything. Solution: as to say \[more concisely\], the most necessary remedy in this moment is to confess everything frequently and more frequently, with all the supports of charity, \[recounting\] all the returning sins from the least up to the greatest — not in one confession, but rather the more frequent confession promotes greater love in confessing, and therefore the greater the shame for so good a penalty obtained and sacred forgiveness lost, so much the greater is the benefit. For it is greatly beneficial to recount the full confession of everything that has returned. Nevertheless it suffices for the one confessing to \[confess\] licitly: for it is sufficient to confess the \[present\] sin, even though all the others have returned, because satisfaction for those other things that have returned follows upon the recession of that \[sin\].

### From these points it is clear

From these points it is clear that if it is just to permit a person to be punished not only for the sin in which he has relapsed, but to be punished for all the returning \[sins\] according to the quality in which they were committed, this \[same principle\] holds in the rewarding of virtues and works.
