---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 35rb
pdf_page: 73
sortable_pagination_id: 73.2
---

the surface contradiction is born here, and \[these authorities\] are to be bent to the rule of the true solution. The aforesaid authority of Gelasius and the authority of Augustinus appear on their face to say the same thing about the return of sins. The truer solution regarding the return of sins is as we stated above: that all sins return. The authority of Gelasius, which seems to say the contrary, must be interpreted — attention must be paid to the case in which he is speaking. He aptly considered that if you have conceived rancor toward someone, you ought not to hold that person guilty on that account; indeed, while he is sinning in right, similarly when the Lord has dismissed all the indignation and displeasure he conceived against you, if you remain in the humility of proper penitence, he will not stir up indignation against you. But if you offend him, then the Lord, \[noting that you\] were in so good a resolve, does not willingly allow the dismissed \[sins\] to return against your will. And it is in this case that Gelasius speaks. But if you have offended him, thus he will recall them — in the leprosy of simony.

### On Simony

Simony spreads today throughout almost every order. Therefore, so that simoniacs may know how to do worthy penance, and that others may impose suitable punishment in the penitential forum, let us briefly run through \[the question\], navigating the sea of doubts that a world steeped in evil has built up concerning simony — first determining what simony is, where the name comes from, how many and what its species are, with which persons simony is most particularly committed, and by what penalty those found guilty of simony ought to be struck.

Simony is customarily described in the usual way thus: simony is the deliberate intention to sell or buy a spiritual thing or something annexed to a spiritual thing. But the general way of identifying simony is this: a simoniac is every obstacle to the grace of conferral — that is, everything that makes a person commit simony who impedes grace from being given, so that it is given less freely; and simony consists wherever anything spiritual or annexed to a spiritual thing is \[involved\], if it is not given freely or is given less freely — rather than given more freely.
