---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 35vb
pdf_page: 74
sortable_pagination_id: 74.2
---

hope and faith through service, because in that category service encompasses not only adultery or obscene service, but also any troublesome \[service\] by which those things that ought to be conferred freely are conferred not freely. By “tongue” is meant popular favor. By “hand” is meant counted money. This distinction is more fully expressed by Gregorius upon that passage from Jeremiah: “Cursed is he who does the work of God deceitfully.” There Gregorius says that this fraud is explicitly committed either by the private grace of the human heart — by which he understands every carnal affection and every undue service attached \[to a spiritual gift\] — or by popular acclaim, or by some extrinsic pleasing thing — by which he understands every other hope of fraud along with mutual exchange for personal gain. It should be noted, moreover, that simony is fivefold on the part of the giver — that is, when one \[gives and\] presses \[upon another\], or when one sells spiritual things; and fivefold on the part of the receiver — that is, when one wished to buy \[them\]; sometimes on the part of both, when on both sides there is a corrupt intention to sell or to buy; sometimes on the part of neither, when on neither side is fraud implicitly present. Moreover, as Gregorius says, one easily deviates from justice when the prelate gives spiritual things on occasion of harm — when he confers \[them\] in anger, \[for\] thus in conferring, when he does not give freely, he commits simony. Likewise, to this end, let not the left hand know what the right hand is doing, and if the left hand mixes itself in with the right hand by asking — and the hand \[goes\] too far — \[it is a\] sin. If the left hand should absorb the right: this occurs when in a chapter a prelate confers a prebend on account of blood ties, or on account of personal favor, or on account of some gift, or for any \[other\] temporal advantage he would otherwise not have provided. And in all such cases simony intrudes.

## vi.

To this we say that among the money-changers in the temple whom the Lord drove out \[one can\] distinguish the types of coins: the first is blood-money, which designates those bloodthirsty men who in their collar \[i.e., in their charge\]
