---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 36rb
pdf_page: 75
sortable_pagination_id: 75.2
---

and will preserve another prelate in preference \[to himself\] by the excellence of such a benefit. But Pope Alexander in the Decretals \[says that\] a prelate should provide to his cleric a competent benefit preferably in one of the others \[churches\]. Those who have been drawn in by rash promises \[are to be regarded\] with prudent faithfulness or faithlessness. Moreover the laborer is worthy of his hire. And the bishop’s chaplain or official collaborates greatly with the work of his lord, and is worthy of his hire, since those who serve the altar deserve to live by the altar. Moreover: “You shall not muzzle the ox when it is treading out the grain.” Likewise, clerics serve the bishop as a temporal staff and provide for him, and when he promotes \[them\] in his churches, he has this intention on account of the abbot, and from the merit of his servants he enriches his household well, \[those who\] are to serve in his churches in other ways. For just as the Lord covers all things indirectly even somewhat indirectly — if this were expressed either by word or by deed, the Lord would repudiate it; he likewise repudiates it in the mind even without explicit mental consent.

## Let us say that simony is committed in these ways only when the coins are multiplied; for in the individual species the individual intentions — namely, \[those\] of consenting and of receiving — must be carefully attended to: on the part of the prelate giving the benefit, sinning primarily against blood is a simoniac act. On the part of the kinsman receiving, this \[act\] is the first \[mode\] of simony. If this case is placed with those coming from afar: if a stranger comes to the bishop and it is established that he has been stirred up and persuaded by reason that he is his kinsman, and \[the bishop\] confers \[the benefit\] — he certainly commits simony with this coin. Nevertheless, the simony of the prince as example: one who by armed force extorts a spiritual benefit is its cause; but the prelate who gives the benefit internally — if he does not intend to destroy the church \[entrusted to\] him but intends to do this for the common utility of his church — does not commit simony. But if others press such violence equally upon him, \[in that case\] simony appears on his part.
