---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 36vb
pdf_page: 76
sortable_pagination_id: 76.2
---

church, or celebrate anniversaries or triennial \[masses\]. Regarding this: if someone \[illegible\] confers a temporal thing on account of a spiritual thing — \[that is,\] simony at an unjust time. This, however, is argued from the authority of Augustinus on that usage: “I will confess to your name for it is good.” “He who dilates God on account of something else praises” and so on. Likewise, he who praises because that \[other thing\] is not the \[true\] object of praise — and \[those\] such questors celebrate triennial \[masses\] and absolve excommunicates in exchange for payment or money on account of payment — commit something other than praising God himself, or absolving, or preaching deeds. And thus they commit simony. Regarding this we read that Paulus judged \[the matter\] on behalf of the elect, and blessed Bernardus \[judged against\] masses celebrated in an unheard-of fashion in religious houses and \[illegible\] to suffrage for offerers. Moreover in the celebration of masses two persons who offer money \[illegible\] \[he\] admits generally, neither avails himself of those \[who refuse\] nor drives away those who offer, and broadly receives \[illegible\]. In such a case of this kind \[he acts\] more harshly than even another who confers. Moreover, such a thing \[illegible\] yet that \[illegible\] in mind. If also he would otherwise have conferred some such thing on the mass and he has regard for the penalty — briefly this becomes simony in part.

### To the eighth \[question\]

And responding to all these \[cases\], we say that we apply \[ourselves\] first to favorable \[interpretations\] and \[hold it is\] good to give a temporal thing on account of a spiritual thing, provided it is done without fraud, for God’s sake. The first \[case is\]: in the dedication of a church, \[the prelate\] standing in excommunication \[before\] absolution. The second \[case\]: in the celebration of anniversaries. The first \[case\]: in suffrages. But concerning supplications. The second \[case\]: in devotion and \[illegible\] — there it is said to be done canonically and for grace, when it is required by a prince that he dedicate \[the church\]; even then he can read \[the lesson\] before receiving the life-tenure from the prince, \[receiving\] for the use of the lights and the lamp of the church, even as he also prepares his own alternate port. For as the canon says, one ought not to dedicate a church. In the second case, it is estab-
