---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 37ra
pdf_page: 77
sortable_pagination_id: 77.1
---

\[it\] was established by the same penalty from the ruler \[and the\] plants, that those committing \[offenses\] deserving excommunication would be punished by a monetary penalty. For if they \[wish to\] give those who are to be absolved the fixed sum of money, the prelate can in this way receive it for the absolution — and regarding these matters — and that he should refund it either to the fabric of the church or to the use of the poor; unless he has been reduced to such poverty that he himself may take from it a small portion among the other poor. In this way he ought to distribute it. Would that the church might sufficiently recognize that he did not perform the absolution led by greed. But if the excommunicates are unwilling to be absolved, or rather bear the excommunication for a year and a day as appointed in certain kingdoms, then the church may at that point expose him to the curse and confiscate all his goods. But if the excommunicate prefers \[to remain in that state rather than\] be broken and subjected to plunder \[from God\], the prelate will receive for his absolution the fixed sum of money, and he ought to refund it either to the fabric of the church or to the uses of the poor, and upon settling all the wrongs done — or to the causes from which those seized goods had been taken if the penitents are those who owed restitution to them. In this case money is given on account of a spiritual thing — either to make one more devout and better. And yet it is licit for anyone in any case to give something to another by which that person is improved. For example, say a college has certain members who are languishing with hunger; you come to it and implore them: “celebrate my anniversary; I give you such a sum of money.” And note that they would be celebrating principally for God’s sake — then they can rightly receive from him. For if they were celebrating the anniversary principally on account of the money, that is simony on their part. But I am pleased, however, that those who hold fast to these subtleties are in danger of being deceived by the \[proverbial\] scarab \[dung-beetle\], drawn into this by their actions with the scarab, thus: “I ask you, I give you such a sum of money so that you celebrate thirty masses first,” or some such thing — \[and then\] simplicity
