---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 37va
pdf_page: 78
sortable_pagination_id: 78.1
---

some pseudo-prelate or canon who in whatever manner extorts a prebend from him. Such a person refers all his work principally to temporal advantage and not to God, or to the benefit of his neighbor; and since no such work is done out of charity, he is not in the state of those who are to be saved. The same reproach applies to the theologian who reads for any principal cause other than God himself — who, if he directs his intention principally toward being promoted to a prelacy, commits simony in that very act.

Certain persons, presuming upon themselves, say they commit no simony in these matters. Indeed, in consolation of their own filth and as an excuse for their obscene greed, they say in favor of their disciples: “We do not wish to condemn the whole world. We grant that those who rise for matins \[and receive\] the first small hourly stipends do not sin so gravely;” hence they rise for matins and distribute golden coins to the poor, which is good, and we \[say\] at the same time it is good. The same for the man; the same even if they sin.

Moreover, let it be supposed that your prebend is divided into four parts, to be received in the four parts of the year; you go to your church four times a year so as to receive those four portions of the prebend, and go nowhere else. In this you sin, because if you come to your church only once a year to receive all the fruits together, you would not sin. By the same reasoning you do not sin if you receive the hourly stipends by rising \[for the office\]. But we count all these payments as fruits of this same kind, and we judge presumptuous the response by which they say they do not wish to condemn the entire world — because in saying this, they act as if they had authority to devise new solutions in sacred scripture. We say that for the aforesaid monks a twofold end can be established, one of which is also the principal end — namely God, whom one should always wish to be the primary \[object\] of one’s work, and never to drive him out; the other is the temporal end, which must be placed under this \[primary one\].
