---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 37vb
pdf_page: 78
sortable_pagination_id: 78.2
---

For if the contrary occurs — such that the temporal end becomes the one \[object\] equivalently placed in the forefront of one’s gaze as though the only thing, and not placed behind as if after the benches — it brings dishonor upon the Savior; and whoever thus acts in his masses or services commits simony. And this is argued most effectively from the authority of the Lord in Leviticus, saying: “Let no one approach the ministry of the Lord if he is blind, if he is a giant, if he is lame, nor if there is a white film over his eye.” The white film over the eye is interpreted as temporal gain in the eye of one’s intention.

Because therefore \[we say\] to those who look principally toward temporal advantage in the aforesaid matters: if the entire prebend, either all at once or in portions, participates in the church’s distribution — whether one rises with others or confers upon us the obligation of rising — we say that whether from physical pleasure or mental \[inclination toward\] temporal advantage, whoever celebrates so many other masses \[with this intent\], if he is about to celebrate in this way, without doubt commits simony. Gregorius is witness, who says: “Confer grace freely.” If you celebrate not freely — that is, for gain — we say you celebrate grace not freely. Similarly \[the obligation\] to celebrate freely: if he celebrates, \[let him celebrate\] not for gain. Yet if he fixes his mind principally on being present or on being a canon, if he is about to celebrate the divine offices principally for God and secondarily for receiving his distributions, he does not incur simony. Moreover, since no evil things are to be done that good may come from them, you ought not come principally to your church on account of payment so that you may give that \[payment\] to the poor, but \[you should come\] for its own sake. Soon enough, such is the custom of a certain church, that the canons all convene at one particular solemnity of the year, and because the laymen who are present perceive nothing of the fruits of that solemnity fully, so that they may receive their full share. Then the canon of one church who comes to that solemn day in order to receive those fruits of the prebend — \[or\] otherwise about to receive them — it is clear from what has been said that everyone who causes all things to resound to God, even though he may also be adapting to the same purpose the payment, \[commits\] simony by the same reasoning. Every person who maintains residence in the church for the fruits of the prebend,
