---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 38va
pdf_page: 80
sortable_pagination_id: 80.1
---

\[Continuing:\] ever patron grants it freely. The question is put: what counsel is to be given to monks and lay tenants \[*territoriales*\] who have been sent to seek admission into the community of monks or nuns? For it is clear that, since they do not earn their place by merit but rather gain entry by another means, or are driven about by the vexation of prelates, they incur the stain of simony through fear or the dread of avarice and greed. Solution. A cloister that is purchased in this way is either a place of pleasure or a place of imprisonment. If it is a place of pleasures, they should be counseled to leave — or, as commonly happens in houses of royal monks, where they feast as splendidly as the rich man who was clothed in purple and fine linen and feasted sumptuously every day — such persons should be counseled to leave and to seek a place of penance, and to undergo worthy punishment for the simony they have committed and for their other sins. If, however, their house is a Cistercian or Carthusian cloister — which is a place of strict observance — it is not necessary that they seek an even stricter house; for they will now find a stricter regime in which both to mourn and to apply discipline. Instead, they should receive some special penance from the abbot for the transgression of the rule, and truly \[make satisfaction\] for the simony committed. Now what counsel is to be given to an entire community whose goods were all acquired through simony, robbery, or some other offense — we have already determined above in the treatise on penance. Further, the question is asked whether anyone may give to his son from his patrimonial goods or from tithes which he has set aside with a view to a prebend in some church. This in fact occurred in the church of Paris under Dean H., with the consent of the entire chapter except the cantor. There is a common custom in many ecclesiastical houses that only a fixed number of monks or nuns is established; if one or more come forward with a sufficient portion to endow a prebend, they are admitted. Such a person is approved in court — who, if he is thus received in exchange for canonical \[services\] and confers \[it\] on us in
