---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 40va
pdf_page: 84
sortable_pagination_id: 84.1
---

\[Continuing:\] money to the aforesaid bishop so that he might give those prebends; for even if one were to anticipate that donation — as may happen — so that the persons involved have no relationship of consanguinity or affinity, \[the gift\] is still suspect.

## After these matters the question is raised whether a mere intimation is sufficient to make someone a simoniac.

That this is so is proved by a matter of fact that occurred involving a certain citizen who initially intended to give five hundred pounds as a penalty upon simoniacs and to meet the cost of suppressing them — that being his stated purpose. Yet he then accepted a prebend, having foolishly bought it for his son, while the citizen did not pay the money. And so when the son was placed in full possession of it and the citizen withdrew his hand, the bishop was thereby excluded. Since, therefore, the Lord weighs the disposition toward the end — and since the prospect of suffering \[or reward\] serves as a typical cause — it is clear that in the manner described the citizen committed simony with respect to that prebend, a thing which is wicked, and whose entire work is darkened by the shadow of simony. We grant this; and the citizen’s son is bound to resign the prebend and restore the past fruits from the time when he came to know that his entry was simoniacal. All should diligently inquire as to how they obtained their prebend.

## Further, in a matter of fact it happened that very devout laypeople served prelates in many offices, doing so without guile, and in the end — whatever their motivation — obtained prebends for their sons, however unworthy.

But because they often cannot gain direct access to prelates, they corrupt with gifts the table companions and advisors of those prelates, so that these might intercede for them with a view to obtaining prebends. Ask and inquire whether the charge of simony is thus to be borne not only by these persons of distinction but also by those table companions and the bishop himself. We grant this without qualification — yet the bishop must in all things have regard principally to God in the conferral of a prebend, and
