---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 41vb
pdf_page: 86
sortable_pagination_id: 86.2
---

\[Continuing:\] to the Corinthians: “Let each remain in the calling in which he was called.” Further, in Deuteronomy it says that one convicted of hating his wife should be allowed to seek another \[wife\], because in the worst cases a bill of repudiation ought not to be denied to them. By analogy, one who was called to a prebend or to a priory ought to remain in it from the outset, and neither seek out another by any means nor withdraw from it too hastily. Further, it appears to have been established by a council that by episcopal authority one could lawfully redeem a tithe from lay hands — it being dangerous to press the layman, since the lord of the tithe cannot in any way be compelled \[to surrender it\]. All the more, then, is a prelate bound to provide a greater remedy where greater destruction of the church is imminent. But this occurs today even among princes: certain ones sell prebends, and do sell them through agents who act in their name. The prelate of the place, where he is able to redeem the patronate from such a layman, is bound to do this for the common utility, to remove such an evil — because by common law laymen ought to have no authority to dispose of prebends or benefices in the church.

Further, if there is a report about a certain bishop that a dean or castellan is to be promoted through the bishop’s official on the ground that in the course of \[his\] service he squeezes out purses and extorts priests from others — we are bound by every means to shut him out by means of suspension \[pending investigation\] and thus prevent the confusion of the church. And then, if \[such\] robbers are to be detained — if \[the canons\] can both detain and degrade them, knowing that they conduct all their affairs simoniacally — for that reason they should wholly abandon \[such a person’s\] administration in practice. By analogy, if through another’s confession you come to know someone to be a heretic or a thoroughly wicked person who is returning as a \[supposed\] good man and was about to be promoted to office — one is bound to hinder him by whatever means, whether by demanding a payment or by disclosing the testimony of one who could be of help. In commendation: if you, an abbot, know that your archdeacon and the associate of \[your\] superiors
