---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 42va
pdf_page: 88
sortable_pagination_id: 88.1
---

\[continuing\] those to be joined and \[releasing\] those to be released, until they have given satisfaction, until they have given money. Beyond this, since \[such things\] can be sold, the question is raised: ought lesser priests to retain \[these fees\], and ought it also to be publicly proclaimed to clergy and laity alike that no sacraments can be sold or bought? For if this were carried out, priests would no longer receive anything in connection with baptisms, burials, extreme unction, or any other sacrament. On the contrary, they would be left in utter poverty when people went elsewhere out of fear and \[the people’s\] hearts forsook the Church. But if they were silent about this or were accustomed to sell sacraments, they would be committing simony — and this seems to be \[acknowledged\] by confessors and priests. Regarding this it should be noted that whereas an adult could be saved without baptism if he had the vow and \[actual\] promise \[of baptism\], \[so that\] he would not be obliged to buy that sacrament — yet for a child to be baptized, where there is no other means of salvation, since the child cannot possess contrition, the parent may not buy but ransom that sacrament as a right belonging to the child. In the other sacraments that pertain to necessity — such as matrimony, the reception of the Eucharist, and the like — no one need give anything for them, since \[such payment\] then jeopardizes salvation, as we have treated more fully above in the treatise on simony. And that such things must not be sold ought to be publicly proclaimed not only to clergy but also to laity, at some time that is neither inconvenient nor \[otherwise inappropriate\].

### On Discovery and Election

After the foregoing, there is a question to be treated separately regarding the discovery and careful study of worthy candidates for election and the merits of those elected — a question we touch on in the first \[book\] of Moses, where we noted that Moses, the friend of God, to whom God spoke face to face, and all his successors — like a father leaving to his sons and descendants the dignity of his homeland — did not leave \[the succession\] to his kin, but instead pointed out from elsewhere and chose Joshua. In these matters let us therefore make election based on aptness, not on blood. What is to be given falls to many in lesser \[proportions\] in
