---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 42vb
pdf_page: 88
sortable_pagination_id: 88.2
---

episcopates or dignities to be obtained freely — so that those whom they know to be of greater benefit to the Church may raise up her pillars — \[yet instead they choose\] kinsmen, or those they are moved to choose through deceit, following love and flattery, or those on behalf of whom some powerful lord, nobleman, or the like may intercede. I pass over in silence those who scarcely lawfully bear to impress on themselves \[those titles\] by means of gifts \[or bribes\]. Thus those electing a bishop, or a church electing an archdeacon or granting a prebend or a parish to someone, induced by any of the aforesaid \[corruptions\] — whose tainted cause was nature, or blood, or love of entering in, or money, the coin of moneychangers, or the fault of flatterers, or reputation, or the endorsement of praise for merit — commit simony. For the one who gives purely and freely to God, giving without charge, freely, with no intent to secure that arrangement, thereby acts rightly. Likewise the last chapter on chapters \[in the decretals\] urges you, the iniquitous, with higher zeal, \[urging\] both that you strive earnestly in electing the merited, and in respect of the honor of the election, \[urging you\] against human fear and love of the same. It says there that no one should wisely withhold from bishops \[the duty\] to be diligent in \[their\] industry, that all the multitude of the people may have good judgment. The same holds in the very first chapter where it says: let those who have received the governance of fields and patrimonial estates leave it to the Apostle to whom it was handed down. God chose. For this \[argument\] the canonical succession by location of elections, confirmed privately in Aaron, furnishes a figure: the rod that suddenly budded and bloomed and brought forth fruit. But \[there is also\] what is recorded of Samuel, of John, who were chosen in a manner as though fallen from heaven, and of Matthias who was chosen by the lot of the Apostles, where no fraud entered in. Indeed Peter said: “Lord, show us whom thou choosest.” Likewise where the Apostle rebuked those who placed tongues above prophets, the gloss says nonetheless that useful things freely yield to more useful things. Likewise, there is not within a human being \[any such disposition that\] lower sensuality excels above what is superior; the inferior part of the Romans \[i.e., lower reason\] excels all indecorousness — that is, the most limpid part
