---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 43rb
pdf_page: 89
sortable_pagination_id: 89.2
---

\[continuing\] that it happens that two are offered for election: one is good and useful to the Church, the other wholly useless — and then those who knowingly elect the latter on account of some form of cupidity, namely some one of the aforesaid leprosy-vices, sin mortally. Or it can happen that two good candidates are offered who can be had with equal ease, though one is far more useful and better than the other; if they elect the less good one, they harm the Church by retaining the better, if they do so for some private cause or temporal advantage — and in that case especially, as the cantor of Paris used to say, they sin mortally. And this is argued by dist. lv, Si quis tamen, where it says that those of castrated form \[i.e., the physically disabled\] who are most worthy of all are to be received into the clergy, as if not bound to others otherwise. The first chapter appears to hold that whoever is worthy may be elected, and those who elect do not sin even if they pass over a worthier person. For if you say that it is always necessary to elect the worthier, and that otherwise one will sin mortally, it follows that no bishop can with a clear conscience confer a prebend, since he will always find a worthier candidate. Moreover, if you say that one need not seek a worthier candidate when one has a worthy person at hand — and indeed where a bishop has with equal ease in his diocese persons who are worthy, others who are worthier, others less worthy, others most worthy yet less suitable — is he to give to the most worthy, or to the furtive, or to the literate, or to the kinsmen who are worthy — since the Apostle says that one who does not provide for his household is worse than an unbeliever?

## Solution

Therefore it seems that a more certain election can be made here, according to the Apostle’s dictum: “We are all one body in Christ and all members have one act; we hold in the Church that we must be members of one another.” This is what every prelate ought to attend to in the conferral of prebends: just as in the Church there are various distinct grades, so \[prebends\] can be meritoriously conferred on various persons according to their inclinations. And so
