---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 43vb
pdf_page: 90
sortable_pagination_id: 90.2
---

Likewise, Gregorius \[says\]: one who is powerful and vigorous must be compelled to take up the governance of souls. Since, therefore, you are neither compelled nor powerful and vigorous, you ought not to come forward to prelacy — which we concede, as is proven by the example of Hieronymus, who writes in the letter to Theodosius that a man who received a talent and kept it all wrapped up in a cloth, while the others were making profits, reserved intact all that he had received. For that reason we are displeased with this reply \[illegible\] and the servant to whom you gave money \[illegible\] and I rose \[illegible\] to the altar which he was unable to carry. For while you, a lazy merchant, hold the place of the talent, another who could have multiplied the talent has taken it up. From this it plainly and clearly shines forth that one elected to a prelacy who diligently discovers himself to be insufficient is bound to resign. Accordingly we read that the blessed archbishop of Canterbury \[Anselm\] resigned into the hands of the lord pope. And then the \[see of the\] episcopate stood \[vacant\] \[illegible\] and no one could be found who judged himself worthy of accepting so great a prelacy — because with whatever zeal they formerly feared to refuse prelacies, with that same zeal they now contend to seize prelacies \[illegible\]. Likewise it often happens \[illegible\] that from some one of the aforesaid \[corruptions\], men are elected who are like the Zipheans — that is, flourishing in temporal things — or like the Philistines — that is, \[rich in\] portion \[illegible\] — or others causing \[the Church\] to fall \[illegible\] or \[illegible\] or like the Canaanites, holding possessions, or like the Gezrites \[i.e., the Gerizites\], from whom — namely, after their election — they await another recompense, or \[illegible\] — that is, alienated from God. \[illegible\] This, therefore, is the question: what is to be done in such a case? Hence if you hold yourself bound to place yourself as a wall for the house of the Lord, let him be humble who has no voice and then \[illegible\] he is able
