---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 44rb
pdf_page: 91
sortable_pagination_id: 91.2
---

\[the case of\] Simon \[Magus\], before whom the archdeacon ought to appear — with the bishop turning a blind eye, being led by a bribe. If a dean or archdeacon or someone of that sort is introduced \[unworthily\], you ought to rebuke him between you and him alone, and then afterward with others. Finally, if he proves incorrigible, tell the Church and impede or destroy \[his appointment\] as much as you can, whether through superior authority, through appeal, or by any other means. And this plainly has its proper place in such a case where it is manifest to all that some wholly useless archdeacon or dean is seeking the impunity of the entire clergy and people. Likewise, it is customary in many churches that at the time when someone is invested with a benefice they seek an oath from him in this form: “Swear that you have given nothing, nor promised anything to another, nor intend on any day to obtain \[anything in exchange for\] this benefice or another.” The second form is: “Swear that you will observe the good customs of this church.” The third is: “Swear that when you have received this benefice you will follow \[it\] with auxiliary tithes for priests or will make common residence in the church, or you will provide sustenance or other canonical \[obligations\] and the like.” But it seems that these \[oaths\] are illicit because they are oaths sought \[at the time of\] investiture with a certain pact attached. Consider: where an oath cooperates toward the investiture of someone, it is manifest that the case argued in the last question of Alarcos \[a decretal\] applies, simoniacally. For it is said there that every fabricated pact, every cessation, every convention is null, and no alienation or \[division\] of the church’s \[property\] is to occur — rather, \[all\] must be received freely. Solution. We believe that in these matters a distinction must be drawn: for either an oath is exacted regarding something that is lawful and to which anyone is already bound, or an oath \[is exacted\] regarding those matters or the same things from those who intend to acquire \[them\] in order to obtain the auxiliary benefice. In the first case it is plainly lawful to take an oath after investiture — for instance, \[an oath\] that one will not harm the church nor has given anything for
