---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 45va
pdf_page: 94
sortable_pagination_id: 94.1
---

one who sells these is a simoniac. But it is objected that the revenues from the seal are now fixed, and that in general it is a custom of the Church that even lords and their servants receive a fixed sum of money for their services, because otherwise they would have nothing to live on. We reply: custom is not my authority — rather, \[truth\] is my way; and we do not ask what is done but what ought to be done. It must be said in general that neither for seals nor for such appendages is any pact to be made, and nothing can be received in virtue of the power of the office. The blessed Thomas of Canterbury, attending to this, summoned all his officials and commanded them most strictly that none of them should receive anything in the exercise of their office, and he had this confirmed by oath from all of them. Hence his chancellor, murmuring that he could receive neither money nor anything else — not even a chapel — in exchange for the seal, received the oath under solemn obligation from all the others \[as well\]. He contributed from his own treasury to all \[their\] cells \[i.e., households\] in lieu of the customary exactions. In order to keep to this care \[illegible\] the example, all prelates are bound to compel their officials by similar means from such exactions — otherwise they sin mortally. This we confirm by the example of the blessed Eli, who sinned mortally because he restrained his sons insufficiently from the immoderate exactions that they made, because \[illegible\] and this was \[illegible\] that he ought not to have tolerated \[his sons’\] making such exactions. \[illegible\] etc. of his \[illegible\] provided that they receive such things immoderately, and \[they\] do not distinguish \[their\] pacts \[illegible\] nor \[written\] citation letters \[illegible\], because regarding \[illegible\] tacitly neither can be given for \[illegible\] nor are they permitted. Likewise if someone says to a notary: he is seeking to obtain letters — receive \[your fee\] — and moreover \[illegible\].
