---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 46vb
pdf_page: 96
sortable_pagination_id: 96.2
---

insufficient \[in his own means\] and has no income by which to live, it is lawful for him to accept moderate expenses from those under his care, where those persons are able to provide them — yet only under the condition that no prior agreement precede it, for if such an agreement were to follow, the taint of simony would ensue. For just as a sick man, taking account of the physician’s labor, his course of treatment, his diligence and his vigils in expelling the illness, ought to render him fitting remuneration, so a client, taking account of the labor, the course of action, and the solicitude of his advocate or legal expert, ought to repay him with fitting and proper expenses, receiving those expenses without any compact or promise — and the authority for this repayment is set forth by Augustinus. There are three other cases in which an advocate is to be rebuked and sins mortally. The first is when he knowingly defends a bad cause. The second is when, before the outset of a lawsuit, he \[demands\] a fixed sum of money which he is to receive for his advocacy. The third is he who, whether from a prebend, from his patrimony, or from some other means, has enough to live on — and in all \[these cases\] he is obligated, without exception, to make restitution of what he unjustly received from his client, apart from reasonable expenses legitimately deducted if he has no other means of living. In the first case, if knowing and willingly he defends an unjust cause, like an advocate through cavils \[serving\] his \[litigious\] parties, he is the indirect cause of spoliation of their opponents — stripping them of what was wrongfully taken — and he bears the obligation of full restitution. For, as both human and canon law say: “He who gives occasion for damage is considered to have caused the damage.” This is not disproved but rather confirmed by what is said in the canonical epistle: “Woe to those who have gone in the way of Cain, and who have poured themselves out for the reward of Balaam, and who have perished in the contradiction of Korah.” Read how Balaam, poured out \[with greed\] for the gifts of King Balak, was bidden to pronounce a curse upon the children of Israel, and therefore the she-ass reproved him and the angel stood against him — and therefore the Lord at last was moved to mercy when he \[the angel\] took this away. Just as \[Balaam\] was first unwilling to declare the falsehood
