---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 47va
pdf_page: 98
sortable_pagination_id: 98.1
---

\[their patrons\] are usurers and they sin through such gross ignorance — when they could easily have learned the truth of the matter — those who thus did not know they were usurers are nonetheless bound to make restitution of all the unclean things they received from them. As to what Solomon says — “Do not sell wisdom, doctrine, or understanding” — we say that he is speaking of the understanding, doctrine, and wisdom of spiritual or moral things, which proceed from the spirit of wisdom, understanding, and knowledge. These things cannot be used \[for sale\] in such a way.

### Note also that, through contemplation of spiritual and moral matters which belong to the body of celestial philosophy and its immunity

\[Know that\] if someone without just cause assigns spiritual or moral things to temporal advantage for the sake of a temporal reward, then just as simony is committed by the sale of manna — which signifies sacred scripture — so also is simony committed by the sale of flour mixed into the pottage of the land of Egypt, which signifies the moral teachings of the philosophers. In another respect, for servants in which masters of morals, if they teach principally for the sake of temporal advantage, we believe that such persons, even if they do not fall into so grave a simony, nonetheless incur mortal sin. There is also a difficult question concerning the masters of schools. It is established that the revenues of those masters have been assigned by their \[ecclesiastical\] fathers so that they might reside in the church, render honor to all who request it, and exercise \[their office among\] the simple and uneducated. Those holding such dignities are bound by oath to observe such an institution, and in exchange receive revenues assigned to them. The question is what advice should be given to those whom such school-masters call upon to teach — especially when they are less than sufficient \[in their abilities\] — and who teach under the condition that they live from exactions imposed upon those whom \[the school-masters\] are bound to teach freely.
