---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 48ra
pdf_page: 99
sortable_pagination_id: 99.1
---

\[This matter is most\] to be marveled at when someone makes an agreement with such a hired priest under the following terms: “Celebrate in my church and you will have such a sum of money and so many cases.” That priest, by the authority of this patron, causes incalculable harm to souls — he is improperly called a “solemn” \[priest\], though he is rather dismissed, with confusion. He solemnly \[acts\] — unjustly excommunicates, unjustly absolves — at the beck of money. Solution: We say that such priests may be admitted in two cases. One is when a \[parish\] person receives such a priest into his household as a co-adjutor paid from his own means, making use of him from the goods of the church. The other case — the more fitting — is when \[the parish priest\] recognizes himself as less than sufficient for the cure of souls, and having obtained from the dean a true permission to preach and not \[be involved in\] testamentary \[matters\] there, he may gather the devoted \[faithful\] as if gathering flowers, and provide nourishment for the flock if he is absent while \[another is\] pressing. He may then place a priest in his stead under the agreement that he have all the fruits of the church in due time \[and\] from their \[full value\] and the remainder in full. As to those who admit such hired priests under such an agreement — see the first question \[above\]. We strictly forbid anyone to entrust churches to such priests under a \[fixed financial\] agreement. Now the preceding clauses are to be observed as follows. In place of two men who are equally needy by law — namely, the theologian and the advocate — let one cite that chapter from the first question where they petition in good faith; let another, namely a preacher, deliver a sermon as Matthew \[prescribes\]; let one hire out advocacy; let the lettered \[man\] say the same ends freely through \[preaching\], since it falls within their proper \[office\]. The same question \[arises\] concerning \[teaching in\] pagan and pastoral moral topics. \[Such mixed practice\] removes good, for it corrupts good morals, and each receives in return the reward of the other. Thirdly, he who reads in unsuitable places and has taken
