---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 48rb
pdf_page: 99
sortable_pagination_id: 99.2
---

such things from those persons, and each receives in return a mutual reward. Thus one hires out his spirit in place \[of another\], \[and\] the other treads down his labors for that reward. Thus no one can inherit the evangelical and apostolic doctrine. For when Gregorius says more fully: “Nothing is better than the kingdom of heaven when one buys it, nor more precious when one possesses it.” The Lord thunders in Leviticus: “If you sell anything to your neighbor, or buy from him, do not oppress your brother; but according to the number of years after the jubilee shall you buy from him.” Whenever you sell anything — that is, whenever someone sells good doctrine or \[is about to\] sell it, \[let him do so thus\] henceforth among those who fear \[the Lord\]. He who knows how to sell may also buy, and so it follows that spiritual things can be sold. Hence also Matthew says: “Trade \[while I come\]” \[cf. Luke 19:13: *negotiamini dum venio*\]. It is to be noted that Matthew in this authority makes a determination. When Matthew says: “Carry neither gold nor silver, nor even a staff for evangelical sustenance” — that is, \[where\] the hearers are devout and ready to give carnal \[goods in return\] for spiritual \[ones\]. But where they are obstinate and where \[they are\] companions of heretics with their gold, or where they would give nothing except with scandal to the preacher — only the staff \[is to be carried\] by the preacher. See Mark: “Carrying nothing except a staff.” And it is clear that carnal things are to be reaped from worthy and devout \[persons\] to whom the word of God is to be sown, and that for such prelates \[the right of\] sustenance from the sowing is claimed in their preaching. Hence this negotiation, as we have said, \[resembles\] a fair exchange of \[things given\] in estimation of what may lawfully \[be exchanged\] — and they receive an equal \[return\] and no more. Further, it is asked: when a foreign nephew or any other small child \[is presented\] as it were an incidental advantage — \[that one\] institutes him in a parish or a prebend or some dignity, though he is not yet capable of it, when in such an arrangement something might benefit you — it is argued that this is not lawful, because the civil law says
