---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 49ra
pdf_page: 101
sortable_pagination_id: 101.1
---

for thus takes that evangelical admonition: “If he has sinned against you,” etc. Furthermore, since all such persons are entirely mortal \[sinners\], what shall the prince do for their weakness when he \[considers\] how or \[a few\] \[illegible\] among their acts which he \[might tolerate\]? It is lawful to \[allow\] a minimum \[of such activity\], and war \[obliges\], and he is bound to defend the church and the whole kingdom against heretics and other enemies, and so he must have means to hire soldiers — what is he to do? If he hires soldiers, they will destroy the kingdom and the church. If he accepts something, since all his cities and towns are full of such persons who rush headlong with fury to nothing except what is illicitly acquired — and likewise by the same reasoning he would moreover have sworn, when crowned as king, that he would bear the sword of the world and be a punisher of malefactors and a praise of the good. If he punished the despoilers in the forest and returned their spoils to the despoiled, he would be bound to do the same with the despoilers of \[the church’s\] revenues — therefore compel all usurers, thieves, and abortionists to make restitution to those they despoiled and \[return\] all usurious gains, since it is established that they are such persons.

There also arises from this the case of a certain prince who takes the cross and, under the privilege as if \[granted to\] him who has gone before in defense \[of the faith\], takes all the movable goods of poor plunderers, \[goods\] which ought to be placed at \[the service of good\] use \[illegible\]. All those \[illegible\] give back what is truly plundered and unjustly acquired — shall he accept them or \[illegible\] restore them? If he accepts \[them\], he abandons the dead of their court. If he does not, he abandons the prey to be drunk down. What shall the church advise? \[Illegible\] Concerning the prostitute, I say that she thus beguiles boys and youths through wiles and enticements, drawing them to places where the goods of their fathers will be \[consumed\] — she herself is called back to restitution. But if she exposes her body for sale to servants who fraudulently and easily could guard themselves against her snares but are unwilling, and cling \[to her\] as if \[they had given\] a consented-upon cohabitation and received \[it\] — such persons \[she\] shall make no molestation or fraud upon, \[taking\] nothing — such that she should despise the impulse of the madman, and
