---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 50ra
pdf_page: 103
sortable_pagination_id: 103.1
---

falters in that he convenes clerics in place of his own duties. He hires out his labor by sitting on the bench to the detriment of time. And since he finds no substance in it and does not seek vain glory, he is beautifully pointed out with the finger and it is said: let this man be praised, because such men are saved with great difficulty. Likewise, such a person ought to attend to the appropriate fee in other respects, not drawn by the motive of teaching, but so that the teaching may look toward others and set a candle before all. If he does not seek this in them carefully enough, he sins mortally. In the chair of theology or of the sacred canons, he ought to approach well-instructed and capable in what is just, inasmuch as it confirms his promotion, free from favor or temporal profit as a primary motive — for \[if otherwise\] it confers the leprosy of simony and imitates it. The leprosy of evil precedes \[such conduct\] if one draws listeners by payment, or by entreaty, flattery, promise, or gifts, so that they would hear such a one who in any other way seeks some advantage.

Regarding those masters, whether civil lawyers or lecturers, who have sworn an oath to forsake some truth according to law, or the beadle who within the school gives entry to the courtyard after the time set by them — since they sell those wretched students, making the less competent a buyer, and since their students cannot be led to attend \[such lectures\] except through seduction or flattery. We say that all such forms are irregular and unworthy of the intelligence of young men, because nothing lawful may be sold that has been furtively excluded from all commerce; and this is reckoned perpetual in the record for clerics, since it strives toward such great fraudulence, because mingled flattery and deception constitute the gravest loss of time. Likewise \[illegible\]

We speak concerning clerics who, for gain, are prepared to soften and hire out \[their services\] and to recruit as many as they can — we say that it is not lawful for them to hire out their labor in this way, because they both waste their time and unjustly trouble sound masters out of their merited glory.

### On crossbowmen
