---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 50vb
pdf_page: 104
sortable_pagination_id: 104.2
---

to either a just war or first a just one, we have prepared ourselves. They ought to follow \[it\] at the king’s summons, since they cannot choose a middle course there — neither \[avoiding\] true harm nor \[finding\] a true remedy, neither disinheritance, nor following their common lord toward incitement of churches and other wicked acts. That middle course which the Lord has left for men placed in such a juncture, from the unjust even to the end of the world, remains. Let them take up the cross, assume it, and go forth in defense of the faith, as the barons recently did — this being the reason those who remain behind either retain a monastery from war or from disinheritance. But if they refuse to choose that middle course, \[the Apostle says\] you would rather allow yourself to be harmed — according to the Apostle, as it were: “Rather allow yourself to be harmed than follow the multitude to do evil.” He also says: “Therefore, if you suffer unjust penalties, it is to the gain of good men, even \[agreeing\] with those who \[seize\] plunder.”

### On the aftermath of wars

And infernally, as we say of usurers, no one of those serving under modern princes is among those who can be saved, nor is anyone of their household \[fit for salvation\]; and since such extortioners are manifestly \[sinners\], they are altogether to be kept away from the Church and from the sacraments of the Church. Especially when incorrigible, they are to be punished by that evangelical correction: if one has sinned publicly, he is then to be excommunicated publicly — \[the sword\] of Corelli against whom sentence was pronounced by Alexander. And as for those prominent men and other learned clerics who embrace such royal satellites and satraps, favoring them first, and for whom benefits have come — neither those of the white nor black \[monastic orders\], neither religious nor irreligious. Those who hire soldiers to lead the king into wars have accepted \[them\]; note that they sin mortally, because what they spend in the campaign belongs to the poor. And Hieronymus says: “To give the goods of the poor to the poor \[is good\]; to squander them \[is wrong\].” If they do not extort elsewhere what they thus spend, they sin mortally. But if they hold the war to be just or we have prepared it
