---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 51ra
pdf_page: 105
sortable_pagination_id: 105.1
---

to be just, they sin mortally — \[being worthy of\] excommunication — in that they support the king in war by furnishing such subsidies, although they could have reproved him and thus \[ceased\] to foment his error — which we concede. But if they object that the Lord paid tribute at Capernaum, \[the answer is\] that the place where the Lord paid tribute was dedicated to this payment. But this does not move us, because what is owed to the royal office and to the priesthood is that clerics be free from all tribute. But if a prince seeks such tributes for royal purposes, we say that the royal prerogatives \[which he claims\] were in ancient times freely and liberally conferred on the churches, and it is the flattery and pusillanimity of those \[clerics\] that has reduced the Church to such servitude. If anyone wished to raise the question concerning those who are hired in fairs — such as those who hire themselves out to usurers and money-changers \[as servants\] — I say that they are bound to restitution of everything they have received from usurers. Similarly regarding master organists and craftsmen, I say that those who hire out their services \[to others\] soften and effeminate the young and uneducated, making them wanton — though they may hire out their services only among those activities which the Church tolerates. But if a prelate grants benefices to wanton singers engaged in such lasciviousness, and permits wanton music to be heard in his church, he thereby incurs the leprosy of simony. Nevertheless, in some solemn procession during feast days, for the sacrament, some \[use of\] organs by secular \[performers\] boarding a new ship may be tolerated. Of jugglers we say that it is not lawful to hire out one’s services to deceitful physicians who delude false sick people who believe they ought to love them. For if they intend this and kill someone with this intent, they are guilty of homicide. From what has been said, it is clear to all that young people and adult men, whether religious of white \[orders\] or others, whether princes or various \[officials\], whether female servants or ironworkers or tavern-keepers or petrous \[traders\] — if they have received anything from usurers or others in \[exchange for\] time, they are generally bound as usurers
