---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 51va
pdf_page: 106
sortable_pagination_id: 106.1
---

set the price of sale according to the condition of the time and his own labor, as the merchant expends; and if the final cost of his goods to him was ten shillings, so that the buyer ought to pay him twelve denarii for the price, he may then sell at that price without injustice or fraud, and in the transaction he reveals that matter to the buyer. If he wishes to sell beyond that price for \[the motive of\] gain through deceit, he sins mortally and is bound to restitution of what he received beyond the due price and his labor.

## On usury

After these matters, one must treat of usury. It is necessary to examine what usury is, whether it may be permitted in any case, what its species are, what penalties usurers are to bear, and how one is to respond to the perplexities and subtle snares of usury which the world, set in evil, has newly devised. The name “usury” is taken in two senses: it signifies both the thing that grows beyond \[the principal\] — that is, more than what was lent — and \[it is applied\] to one who gives a loan so as to receive something above the principal. This sin may be defined with certainty as follows: usury is a price agreed upon in \[a contract of\] loan whereby someone receives or intends to receive above the principal. Hence Augustinus \[says\], which applies to the market: “He has it,” at C. xii q. iii c. Plerique. \[The rule\] that measure for measure is as usury — see that \[text\] of Ambrosius, C. xiii q. iii: “You may exact usury from another when you do not defraud, as from a Saracen.” Likewise in Deuteronomy \[23:20\]: “You shall not lend to your brother at interest, but to a foreigner,” and to a foreigner you may lend at interest. Likewise Roman law permits centesimal \[i.e., 1%/month\] usury, and the lord pope, under the name of penalty, holds this binding on senators at court \[for\] those who do the opposite. But the arguments by which we resist \[this view\] are stronger: that portion in Ezekiel \[18:8\]: “He has not received usury or any excess,” and in Exodus \[22:25\]: “If moreover a stranger from my people
