---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 52ra
pdf_page: 107
sortable_pagination_id: 107.1
---

another kind that continues through the multiplication of the talent, of which it is said wholly in the Gospel: “You ought to have deposited my money with the bankers, and on my return I should have received it back with interest.” \[Matthew 25:27\] The same is held at dist. lxvi: “As usury is to be regulated and multiplied,” because as the philosopher says: “A noble soul knows that possessions, worthy of a miser, cry out publicly to the possessor.” We shall speak of this usury below. But first, it is settled by what has been said that such usury is to be permitted in no case. Against this the following objection is raised: if it is lawful for me to steal another’s property, or \[at least\] it is a lesser sin to take a loan without usury — for instance, where enemies in the noise of war are attacking the faithful and usurping the land of my inheritance, through which \[land\] the pope enjoins those signed with the cross freely to rout the enemy in remission of sins and to take the cities and strongholds with their goods — then may we not, since we plunder their goods, also receive the same from them by the contract of usury so as to cause them harm, who when compelled under truces spend \[their wealth\], \[who\] say: “Unless a ransom is demanded, grant us entry to this city; we will give you a hundred thousand pounds above such a sum and unjustly would bring back such a sum.” If this \[argument\] holds, we may receive usury from enemies illicitly.

Likewise the same holds for the money-changers who used to carry reverently the wealth of laypeople in the Temple so that they might offer it. Did they not receive what they received from the buyers at that place as usury? For Lot himself thus also \[acted\], as did Peter, as did the household bond, and there is usury there. By the same reasoning, if a servant gives a loan to his master, a poor man to a rich one, or \[someone\] feeds another and receives back the entire capital as usury, he commits \[usury\]. But we say all together: usury is to be permitted in no case, and the laws that permit it are to be corrected. To the first \[objection\], let it be said that since a just war is that which is waged between those marked with signs
