---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 52rb
pdf_page: 107
sortable_pagination_id: 107.2
---

\[those marked with the cross\] do not plunder others’ goods there, but take back their own. Therefore since they receive cities \[as\] from God and take money from them, they do not sin, because what the Church ought to have received they have received as their own, since that entire eastern region comes \[to them\] by inheritance. Just as the Romans, on account of it, \[distributed it\] to us in the apportioned lots of distribution. Regarding the money-changers \[in the Temple\], we say that either what was being offered was owed — in place of tithes properly given — or it was offered without any obligation. If it was owed, they could \[rightly\] sell the sacrificial animals to recover what was theirs. But if it was not owed but was compelled by coercion, still this is as if they were swimming \[in it\], because they incurred the expectation of usury. Similarly, we say regarding the Giffardis who discover simple people \[and\] find doves, candles, and other things for them to offer — that those who sin mortally by not offering \[themselves\] sinned first, since indeed they were supposed to offer. On the third point we note that a usurer, if he gives a loan to his God so that \[the money\] may fatten \[him and\] feed others, and he would otherwise not have given the loan, sins. Similarly, if he gives him a loan he would not otherwise have given, but so as to extort from him a prebend or other ecclesiastical benefice, he simultaneously incurs the taint of simony and of usury.

### Likewise thirdly, the layman

A layman, blinded by cupidity, raises the following objection and answers that all things worth \[anything\] through Christ may be yielded for Christ as for gain: a wife, a horse, a book, a servant, gold vessels and garments. Why then may he not similarly yield his coins and expect some recompense from them, since coinage is as much not sinful as a horse or a house? Likewise if someone from Rome in prison were to give me a loan and free me and lead me safely to my homeland, should I not be bound not only to repay the principal but to offer worthy recompense? Which he proves \[as follows\]: an innocent advocate \[acting for him\] might afterward in the money acquired in marriage \[receive\] a hundred above the principal, and
