---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 52va
pdf_page: 108
sortable_pagination_id: 108.1
---

I become his debtor for the principal, and I unjustly damage him in \[not repaying\] you, and I complain as it were to God that a man was unwilling to become \[such a one\]. I owe him \[recompense\] according to natural law; but \[counter-argument\] proves that he cannot sin according to that Gospel text: “Lend, expecting nothing in return.” \[Luke 6:35\] For even if he himself expects something above the principal to be received by you, such a one has entered into a usurious contract. But if you say \[otherwise\] orally \[illegible\] he holds to what is against him and does not hold that it ends against him in this \[matter\]. Which we concede \[only\] when clamoring against the layman with the Lord. “Mars, be still” — as \[illegible\] the speech of the anger of such laypeople, and indeed of the quality of the matter, let us say that with all such \[arguments\] you can licitly expect in return for the principal only what is otherwise owed. If \[illegible\] succors in unjust necessity: you may expect from that \[person\] \[illegible\] to lend so that he may similarly succor you in \[illegible\] necessity, which you owe him by debt — you must not hope for more than your loan. We shall distinguish between rental and loan, since the point is acute.

A rental transfers a thing into the ownership of the recipient, but the thing remains that of the one who rents it, and it is necessary that the entire capital remain with the one renting it, because his thing remains intact and he cannot receive anything more on account of future loss. But in a loan, \[the nature of\] a monetary loan says: your thing, your principal — not consulting you. From the five shillings which you lend me once, the spirit of them is that they pass from you to me. Hence it is already iniquitous for you to receive anything beyond \[the principal\], because \[you do it\] for the return of your thing. It is different where you rent out coins, as \[someone\] wants to have them so that he may appear wealthy, as \[illegible\] someone or that glutton in \[illegible\] brings back the notion by example. For then you can receive something above the principal \[illegible\] because you rented out your property as a lease. This a prince often does who \[illegible\] eludes enemies by simulating fever \[illegible\] and displaying those of another. Now the prince dictates that usury is to be permitted in no case. Now then, whether anyone may take a loan from someone at usury without himself sinning — it seems not, because rightly according to Augustinus, one is incomparably
