---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 52vb
pdf_page: 108
sortable_pagination_id: 108.2
---

more bound to love the soul of my neighbor than my own flesh, and \[I am\] more bound to love the soul of the usurer than my own flesh. And \[it seems that\] \[illegible\] I can therefore take a loan from him at usury without \[illegible\] sinning mortally: if I provoke a debtor to \[illegible\] him \[illegible\], I sin mortally by the testimony of Hieronymus; if \[illegible\] an advocate or doctor taking care \[illegible\]; if \[illegible\] a money-lender, or if a usurer and money-changer. Likewise those who consent and those who act are bound by the same penalty, because if only those who consent \[are punished\] as those who do \[it\], much more are those who cooperate in the doing worthy of death. If I \[illegible\] toward the one who \[illegible\] gives a loan at usury, \[illegible\] thus \[illegible\] the sin \[makes me\] worthy then of death. And to the same effect says the Apostle: \[illegible\] since \[illegible\] with the scandal of his own \[people\], \[illegible\] hunger since \[illegible\] a loan \[illegible\] with the scandal of the soul \[illegible\].

### Solution.

Here we shall distinguish three cases. The first is when someone falling into necessity approaches a usurer, provoking him to give a loan without usury — \[having previously received\] with usury — and \[now\] expecting nothing above the principal. As certain \[men\] do today who are not pastors \[illegible\] coming to usurers in \[illegible\], bound to them and permitting their sons to hold benefices so as to receive a loan from them in this way — I believe that in this case they sin mortally, since by their actions they induce usurers to give a loan with such a pious intention. But the \[illegible\] case is of those who are amply provided with fields and now, receiving from greater men \[illegible\], take loans under someone, under some greater usury, or indeed draw out their \[illegible\] sophisticly or \[illegible\] at minimum — and in this case all who thus accept a loan sin mortally.

The third case is this: when a person in need approaches a usurer, setting forth this form of lending: “I am in need, you have abundance, and since \[illegible\] your first \[duty\] \[illegible\] love \[him\] as yourself, with my necessity
