---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 53rb
pdf_page: 109
sortable_pagination_id: 109.2
---

“This day salvation has come to this house” \[Luke 19:9\] — because what was plundered has been restored, and salvation \[came\] to his house. Likewise the seventh time Augustinus would say: “A penalty is simulated when, if what was taken is restored, \[the one who makes restitution\] should restore a penalty when he restores what was taken.” Let us say without distinction that no rector can receive anything from a usurer whom he knows to be a usurer, or even from one acknowledged to be a usurer by testimony in common use. A prince may and should take all the goods of a usurer and apply them to making restitution to those despoiled, because by this \[means\] he bears the double sword and renders what is each person’s by pure justice. But if there is a tavern there \[i.e., a public venue\] and the despoiled cry out against the usurers, the \[rector\] who has received \[from them\], as \[we have\] noted, sins mortally, and the authorities which abbots or monks themselves cite to justify receiving from usurers confound them, and they can receive nothing from such people by right — if we make clear the situation regarding every condition of lordship. By virtue of the Roman penalty \[the pope\] could dispense with some usurer or robber so that they might be in a state of salvation, if they could make restitution of what was taken to those despoiled, or give \[the proceeds\] through the hand \[of an intermediary\] \[illegible\] to the poor who were despoiled — but abbots or black or white monks ought not to take it upon themselves to perform this office, because they have perpetual care of the souls of such people only where priests are, and the whole \[matter\] \[illegible\] pertains to them.

Likewise, regarding the right of portion \[i.e., what share each has\]: ask whether he who has lost a loan \[illegible\] in gambling to the lender and the same of the losses — if he approaches the penal court, what the priest ought to do regarding such restitution, whether such a forum can apply. Since the authority says that in the stronger case the one in possession prevails. Let us say that such a one ought not to restore \[the money\] to the winner, but rather the church prelate should give it to the poor as interest thus acquired — just as if a cleric who accepted a prebend from a bishop for a hundred pounds ought not to restore those pounds to the bishop, but rather ought to restore them for the use of the church. Likewise this also is simony. Likewise a certain seventh
