---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 53va
pdf_page: 110
sortable_pagination_id: 110.1
---

say that there is no need to fear in the case of the offering of a usurer, \[distinguishing\] whether it comes from usury or from a lawfully acquired \[source\]. They say that abbots receiving usurers or their gifts should inquire in this matter whether they can lawfully receive them or not, adducing the aforementioned authorities — we have shown above \[that those authorities\] are rather to be confounded as applied to those who comply. For it was not commanded to them to receive such gifts, as it was commanded to the sons of Joachim to carry away the vessels \[from Egypt\]; nor could they make friends from the mammon of iniquity or \[receive\] in relation \[to\] the despoiled — rather, those despoiled cry out against the abbots who receive \[such gifts\]. For when abbots receive such things, they do not render to each what is his; rather they take it away. They are powerless and mute. Likewise the authorities prove that those who sin mortally in receiving the gifts of usurers or robbers without due prior examination \[are condemned\]. For the Lord says in the Gospel \[Matt. 6:25\]: “The body is more than food” — much more is the soul more than clothing. But you would think of poison or of any cup or food of which it is doubtful whether it is deadly, or \[where it is\] established — would you buy it without prior inquiry? Much more where peril to the soul threatens, an investigation equally great or greater ought to precede. Likewise, “a fool drinks iniquity like water” \[Job 15:16\], but this abbot seizing such money drinks iniquity like water, as it says in the Psalm \[69:15\]: “Let not the tempest of water overwhelm me, nor the deep swallow me up.” Likewise the Apostle \[1 Thess. 5:21–22\]: “Test all things; hold fast to what is good; abstain from every appearance of evil.” But here there is an appearance of evil in the receipt and in the person of the usurer, because the greatest scandal arises, and \[from\] this name \[i.e., usurer\] arises the due examination of which the Apostle speaks \[Rom. 12:2\]: “that you may prove what is the will of God, the good and acceptable and perfect.” Likewise, the animal in the law that divides the hoof is accursed, and every \[animal\] that chews the cud without \[the right\] time is rejected by the Lord, as is said. Unless they divide the hoof and apply salt
