---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 53vb
pdf_page: 110
sortable_pagination_id: 110.2
---

we understand as discernment. But abbots in the aforesaid \[matters\] neither divide the hoof nor apply salt, and they are the accursed animal in the law; yet they have zeal but not according to knowledge. Likewise, without due examination they proceed as if someone wished to buy a young bull or a donkey or a dog or a servant — would they not examine carefully whatever he was buying, and the rest in the matter of purchasing, as the saying is: “Let no one buy a beast of burden.” If therefore they are derived from the injustice of usury or rapine, and they are unwilling to make restitution but rejoice in \[their\] ivy \[i.e., in covering things over\] and wish to ignore it — they are truly fools, according to the \[saying\]: “He would not understand so as to do well; the ignorant will not know.” \[Ps. 36:3–4\]

See \[what\] Tobias says about the food of his wife: “Look, I do not know whether it is true; for we are sons of the holy, and it is not lawful for us to eat anything from plunder.” \[Tob. 2:13\] And in Ezekiel \[4:14\]: “Alas, alas, O Lord God! Behold, my soul has not been defiled, and I have not eaten the flesh of what died of itself or was torn by beasts from my youth until now; no unclean meat has entered my mouth.” Among your friends there \[was\] such love \[as that of\] Joseph who deliberated \[carefully\]. And they want \[what is said\] in the \[verse\] where it says: “No one shall approach the Lord’s \[presence\] as blind, as lame, as hunchbacked” and the rest of the like \[Lev. 21:18\]; and if the examples of the saints could penetrate the hearts of abbots, at least the coals of desolation and the path of the saints’ examples may guide them. For it is read of a son of the saints himself who, having been struck by the devil because he struck a lamb in the desert, \[was punished\] only because he received \[something\] from a usurer unknowingly. Then, led through the road where the usurer was hiding, he fell upon a stain \[of sin\], and later he suffered for this and was \[eventually\] restored. Likewise, of Abbot Ivatus of Blois it is read that when a usurer offered him a large sum of money computed from usury — \[too\] excessive and moving \[him\] — two cantors came to admonish him. The usurer, restoring the rest, said: “These are from the devil’s coin, from usury.” Likewise an abbot who receives such \[gifts\], with the priests crying out \[against it\], and the prior of them sends a sickle into another’s harvest, which pertains to him — and he sins
