---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 54ra
pdf_page: 111
sortable_pagination_id: 111.1
---

We grant this, saying that a notorious usurer ought not to be received unless he makes restitution of all that he has unjustly acquired — for a restitution that would render his household destitute and infamous would be useless — and such a person should not be received merely as a show \[of penitence\] unless there is some actual record of restitution already made by him.

## And the said father \[argues\] that there is a twofold palliating \[excuse\]

One is a palliating excuse of religion, the other an external allegation. Palliating excuse of religion occurs when a simple \[abbot\] receives usurers under the hope of good, believing more will come from their generosity than Hieronymus would say: “Feigned equity is not equity at all, but twofold iniquity.” External allegation appeals to human laws, which indicate that a usurer ought to be received by an abbot when he brings with him something of his fortune. Do you suppose you have coins obtained by theft or usury — buy a field with them? The Justinianic law will say: the lord of the coins, since they were stolen, \[retains ownership\]; but only up to such a day as you can give them to the monastery, which can receive such a field. But the objection is that you have coins obtained by theft and exchange them for two obols — they remain stolen up to that point. Likewise, authority says that another may make confined revenues from \[ill-gotten gains\], but they come from a bad root and bear bad fruit — for as the Apostle says to the Romans: even a bad root \[corrupts what grows from it\]. For good men take care: if the root is infected, the branches will be infected. If you have a stolen thing that you acquired, along with its equivalent, one of them always remains \[ill-gotten\] and you cannot make alms from it. We grant this, saying that there is a twofold forum: one the external forum, the other the forum of confession. In the external forum, the foregoing principles apply, but they do not apply in the forum of confession, where a man is bound to judge all the substance pertaining to him, as it were under the plane-tree or the terebinth. Hence abbots ought not to retain stolen goods or stolen money in either forum, but should offer to receive \[such a person\] in good standing, provided he offers to have nothing of the matter.
