---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 54va
pdf_page: 112
sortable_pagination_id: 112.1
---

really \[harmed\] the church. But if they do not have the means to make either \[full\] restitution or to beg pardon from those they despoiled — asking them, for neither past nor future considerations, to grant absolution — then if the \[structures\] have already been consecrated and built, though from usury, they may in a similar manner \[choose\] to keep them or tear them down or convert them to the use of those who were despoiled, which is to be condemned; it is nearly the case that such a \[building\] should be torn down, so that its example may serve as a pattern for others and daughters \[of such transactions\] not be constructed. In cathedral churches and temples \[illegible\], the spiritually sound counsel will be that they estimate and work toward making restitution or satisfaction to those who were despoiled or to their heirs, and \[act through\] the hands of the church or of wise fathers; for the Christian religion is not so indissoluble that anyone, while living, can sin with impunity through usury or plunder, since whoever is moved or troubled with fury carries it in a state of \[spiritual\] danger. Now one runs with fury in nine ways: when one commits \[the sin\] oneself, when one counsels it, when one gives common consent to it, when one flatters \[the sinner\], when one receives \[their gifts\], when one communicates with them, when one cites \[their example\], when one does not resist, when one takes vengeance \[on their behalf\]. One becomes a sharer in lordship when one begins to benefit from usury or plunder. One counsels it through legal quibbles \[brocardis\], through letters that say how to levy taxes from priests. One consents through usurers’ households and dependents. One flatters who induces popular persons to lead the usurer or robber toward usury or pillage. One receives, as an abbot who receives wealthy usurers receives usury, \[and\] as a canon of the bourgeoisie who receives robbers. One communicates with them, as \[those who clothe\] prostitutes in finery \[do\], while abbots who silently neglect to investigate whether something comes from plunder or not receive \[thereby\]. One does not resist, as one who, though he might have forced restitution, has been rendered pliable by the pope. No one escapes the taint of secret complicity who openly deserts the condemning of crime. One is not judged to live the life of \[the law\] as is noted above on the decretalists. Also, the question arises whether in any

### Case one could lawfully receive money from usury
