---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 55ra
pdf_page: 113
sortable_pagination_id: 113.1
---

all are bound to restitution at the hands of those who have not made restitution at the hour of death, for their portion. Likewise, all those who live from usury or plunder are fully bound to follow naked Christ. The same must be said of those who keep taverns at extortionate prices, and of all classes of men who sustain themselves through wicked plunder or usury. Hence the usurer’s wife, on her own, ought — as we maintain — to live from the labor of her hands and not to communicate with incorrigible usurers nor to consent to their plunder. And she must also render an account of her propriety. And note that we say all sin. First, they sin greatly when they plunder. Second, when they hold for a long time the property of others to the greater loss of those despoiled. Third, even more when they pledge those same goods of others to yet others. Hence such usurers or robbers are bound to make satisfaction — or rather must be compelled — for all the harm that accrues to those despoiled through the various forms and exactions of their activities.

Now \[illegible\] is the question in which usurious money may lawfully be \[illegible\] \[illegible\] if someone \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\] \[illegible\]. But at the time of \[illegible\] the usurer or robber ought to attend to the prelate of his church or to another man of good repute, and if the prelate \[illegible\] he must distribute all the plunder or usury in such a way that, if the despoiled are dead and their co-heirs too, \[the money\] should be distributed to the poor on their behalf while they are being purged in purgatory \[illegible\] absolution. But if the despoiled are living or their heirs \[survive them\], restitution or satisfaction must be made at their discretion. But if the despoiled have, while dying \[illegible\] of usurers, remitted either the debt or the premium of the debt, the usurers can receive
