---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 55va
pdf_page: 114
sortable_pagination_id: 114.1
---

that one could give counsel of a similar kind — that such a person should retain the necessities and redeem from year to year, according to his means, those things he had received from usurers. But we dare not give that counsel, for the matter is one of exact knowledge, since it concerns plunder. We give only this counsel: that they approach those from whom they took usury, and that those \[persons\] grant them release — so that if he took a hundred, they absolve him of twenty, and that wherever the matter is resolved, absolution is granted of their own free will when they absolve. Thus also, if he is prepared in his will to pay a hundred, those from whom he received will absolve him, and the usurer’s household will not be endangered. But if those despoiled, being of good will but somehow coerced, grant him absolution under compulsion, because nothing evil is to be done, they \[the usurers\] are not free from the obligation and must first declare, he and his whole household, \[their debt\] to anyone they have despoiled of money or clothing — for the usurer’s household lives off their \[victims’\] goods.

## On money and trade

Again, there is a very difficult question — almost a capital matter — concerning what we have often seen in usury. Suppose a merchant, prince, or prelate has gathered an enormous sum of money from usurers through tallies and exactions, which he reduces into a great mass, pours it into a fair, and there strikes a new coinage to circulate through the fairs and merchants’ markets and exchanges, so as to multiply it in various ways. You attend these fairs: some parties have all this false money, entirely derived from plunder, and just as all those from whom the prince has already unjustly taken and not restored are being despoiled. Why then does it happen naturally that the transactions at the fair circulate by means of this money in proportion to its quantity? Because wherever anything passes from one hand into another, it takes the form of either a loan, a contract of purchase and sale, or a gift of generosity. But none of these can be the basis for one who holds such money to intro\[duce it into lawful commerce\]
