---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 56va
pdf_page: 116
sortable_pagination_id: 116.1
---

and within the minimum. Does the usurer receive anything in the loan? \[The answer is\] that he who receives above the principal in a loan lives \[off usury\]. What if a servant of his who accepted a loan from him earned \[a profit\] from the loan — how much would he be obliged to repay? He does not seek it back — therefore he owes something in exact \[terms\] to the usurer, and is bound to restore it to him. Solution: in all these cases we say it is usury. Doubly so for the one giving the loan: if he accepts a hundred above the principal in the loan, he is bound to restore it to the one from whom he received the usury. And the other who takes a loan and confirms the place \[of the transaction\] is bound to restore to those from whom he unjustly profited.

We likewise say it is usury if someone gives grain to another thus: “I give this grain out of charity and defer it until the feast of Saint Remigius, even though grain may afterward become more expensive” — this is usurious. In the same way we speak of princes and various wealthy men who are more cunning than usurers — more so than the bourgeois or merchants — who receive in pledge fields, vineyards, mills, and estates. They also arrange contracts as loans. Nay, you give as a loan rent upon this land or estate or honor, and when after a long time you receive back the principal with all fruits or revenues, it is clear that this is the worst form of usury and \[the lender\] is bound to restitution of everything received above the principal, except for legitimate expenses he has incurred in the cultivation of the fields or other goods without which they could not otherwise be preserved. In the same way we speak of all those who cooperate with usurers and lend them money: for just as a prince who harbors assassins in the forest is bound to make restitution for everything they rob, so also a prince is bound to make restitution for everything that usurers plunder. Hence also in a loan, as in a simoniacal matter, all in the \[external\] forum
