---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 56vb
pdf_page: 116
sortable_pagination_id: 116.2
---

they seek \[recovery\] from them — those in white \[vestments\] and \[illegible\] — who approach the \[ecclesiastical\] cure in this fashion. “I purchase a thousand marks of silver; for the same marks I \[owe\] thirty solidi but they are worth forty, and he will restore that sum to me as a loan to them.” Afterward he moves the lord pope to seal the contract — is this lawful for him? Again, they frequently make such a contract: “I grant a hundred until that fair, unless you settle your account with me within that \[time\] under penalty of thirty.” Again the lord pope confirms such a contract, as they say, and this is usury. Solution: We believe that the lord pope would not approve the sealing of such a contract beforehand; for when they make those dark contracts among themselves without the knowledge of the lord pope, they afterward cunningly suggest fictitious contracts in order to obtain his seal — given that such a practice is in the forum a matter of usury.

### On the penalty

Concerning the penalty which sophists call a “penalty” when it is often in fact usury — let us say that it can stand in two ways. In one way it may stand as a kind of fraternal correction and incentive, provided this is done without ulterior motive. This penalty is inserted because the one \[lending\] fears loss to himself at the fair, and prefers to receive his simple money at the fair rather than a penalty after the fair. But if usury is concealed under this name, and \[the lender\] intends and prefers to receive the loan after the fair with a penalty rather than the simple loan without anything — in this case we hold it to be usury. Again, some wish \[to argue\] something \[further\] regarding a usurer: he should undergo the penalty of usurers, which the presumptuous \[illegible\] objection poses. A certain cleric did not wish to give money at usury with his own hand, but wished to cede the care of lending it to some substitute on this express condition — that the substitute should give it out at usury — so that the cleric would receive two-thirds of the usurious gain and the substitute one-third. The substitute, having immediately received the money from the cleric, gave it out at usury and immediately received \[illegible\] for it, the cleric nonetheless reducing it \[illegible\]. For \[illegible\] what she had received and \[illegible\] of the accommodation
