---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 57rb
pdf_page: 117
sortable_pagination_id: 117.2
---

\[cleric\] who gave the occasion for the usury that was practiced through him in lending is bound to restitution for all that the \[substitute\] thus extorted by lending. If he makes no restitution, we say the same of the cooperators of usurers as of those who assist robbers. Reminding \[usurers\] of their usuries — that if usurers make no restitution, all \[their gains\] are subject to restitution. Again, what of wealthy investors \[valudinarii\] who grant smaller merchants a sum of money for trading, eventually to receive back their principal or more — sharing with them — part \[of the argument\] shows that they themselves are usurers, since they grant such money with the intent that fortune over time will bring an increase; and in this they are usurers. We grant this. But suppose the wealthy investor bears the risk at sea, as one running over five years in the work of buying and selling merchandise — he labors and may well receive much above the principal, indeed the hoped-for fruit of his labor; if, however, he entrusted the labor \[to another\], he is bound to restitution. For to receive above the principal the fruits of labor is \[appropriate\] labor; but when something thus accrues above the principal it is usury.

### Solution

Any merchant who forms a partnership with another to trade — if neither party is required to bear all expenses, each contributes his own expenses incurred in the names of buying and selling. Likewise, in his own person or through an intermediary he labors toward justly receiving the fruits of his labor. We believe, however, that insofar as such a person moves money in common on behalf of another, and the expenses he incurs as a traveling merchant, those \[expenses\] being covered, the wealthy investor \[should be reimbursed\].

Again, if \[I am\] a familiar of the prince, I wished a loan from a tally of ten pounds and \[knew\] the prince was my debtor, and seeing this \[advantage\] I gave him the loan — in this something of the forum’s \[taint\] accrued. Say also \[illegible\]
