---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 58ra
pdf_page: 119
sortable_pagination_id: 119.1
---

If there is a doubt about a usurer, how should a knowledgeable ecclesiastic proceed? I am the one who acts against the usurer, and I am the one who will bring him to confess his usuries once the matter is resolved. And what is to be said concerning him who is established as one who induces another to engage in usury? And on the question of tithes: if someone ought to pay tithes to those usurers whom he publicly accuses among his dependants, and who are incorrigible and unwilling to make any restitution — and if the bishop and the rural dean defend them and cry out in their defense, saying that they have confessed and received communion and are therefore to be tolerated. Simple \[lay\] folk in the church cry out that these men are usurers and forgers, following that evangelical admonition: “If your brother has sinned against you,” what should this layman do in bringing such matters into the open? Solution: as rural deans and bishops confess to us, it seems to us the most wholesome counsel that the priest should in every way urge his simple parishioners to accuse those whom they know to be guilty, and if they are unwilling \[to accuse\], they should be removed from their place entirely; and thus the priest should excommunicate the offender, correct him, or — if he refuses to return to his senses — do what must be done to bring this about. And those who ought to do this should prove it thus: you are bound to love all your neighbors as yourselves, and \[to care for\] their souls incomparably more than for any material goods; and you are bound in every way to labor for their correction. They cannot be corrected by your accusation unless this is used as a remedy for all your sins by opposing them in the accusation of heretics. Take care lest in such an accusation — for it is by such \[people\] that the Church is ravaged today — they say that the heretics, like little foxes in the vineyard, gnaw at both root and summit, and
