---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 58va
pdf_page: 120
sortable_pagination_id: 120.1
---

\[thing\] once confessed to the Lord is secure and must not thereafter be alienated from the Lord or withheld. Likewise concerning the gloss on the Psalm: “Let him not draw his sword against him \[but\] render it back.” Augustinus says that the bow shoots further than the fence. The soft heart vomiting forth hard wood. The New Testament. The exchanged \[dues\] of death are simoniacal when exchanged. The middle part of \[the Gospel of\] Mark, which stands firm, signifies moral precepts which are immovable. For it is moral, and because

we plainly see it compared in the Gospel: “Woe to you who tithe mint” and overlook those things that are weightier in the law. And he adds: “These things you ought to have done without omitting the others.” And by the authority of the Gospel it is necessary to pay tithes; neither canon nor custom can alter the precept concerning tithes, and we warn — I would say — that the contrary custom of abusers cannot abrogate what the Lord has commanded. For if this whole region were by custom given to fornication or some other sin, that custom could not derogate the commandment against fornication. By the same reasoning, no custom can derogate the commandment concerning tithes on all justly acquired goods. A tenth part is owed to God. By the term “tithe” there is now also expressed every revenue from fruits, as around \[dist.\] i, q. i, \[c.\] “Presbyteris ecclesiam.” Revenue, as in xvi, q. vii, \[c.\] “Decimas.” If perhaps someone claims to possess more valid arguments and expositions of the sacred texts, they are hereby canonized, through which it is most effectually shown that tithes are owed by all, of all things, and by everyone.

Hence Hieronymus \[on Malachi\], at c. xi, q. i, \[c.\] “Revertimini,” says: “Behold, the year is to be filled; nothing is brought into my storehouses; thence have we filled our barns. And therefore he promises the tithe which is owed from the \[granary-\]keeper’s stores.”
