---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 59va
pdf_page: 122
sortable_pagination_id: 122.1
---

An objector says that celibacy should not be preferred to the marriage of Abraham, for the generosity of the one is not to be preferred over the generosity of the other, since the dignities are in some respect equal — let us say the virtues of the married are equal before God. \[Yet\] of the goods of Abraham, many retain much against the poor, for by right \[one\] ought to leave behind the \[superfluous\] forces of speech. If someone, after the manner of Abraham’s example, retains patrimonial goods for their own sake rather than living in profitable community, that poor man is able to receive ecclesiastical goods from his own \[rightful share\], since he is rendering service to the church; for “the laborer is worthy of his wages,” and “those who serve the altar live by the altar.” Now the authority of Hieronymus speaks in these words: if clerics retaining patrimonial goods either support the poor from them or spend everything on the Gospel’s commendable practices, yet beyond this usurp ecclesiastical benefices — such \[clerics\], \[Hieronymus\] has judged, eat and drink \[unworthily\]. This is the kind \[of conduct\] that befits such saints, and \[such are\] vagrant clerics who strut with zeal in the public squares. It is therefore manifest that all tithes of all things are to be paid by all in their proper manner.

### \[¶\]

There are those who grumble more, because four testimonies immediately confound them and strengthen the mouths of all who speak evil: the first Mosaic, the second apostolic, the third evangelical, the fourth canonical. Against these not even an angel from heaven can dispense; still less can the lord pope, nor can anyone contradict or speak against any of these. Hence this is a difficult question recently debated in the churches of Reims and Sens: namely, whether we are bound publicly and before all lay persons — compelling them by ecclesiastical coercion — to preach that they are bound to pay both major and minor tithes of all things. Whereas we perceive that these people are incorrigible and will be led to even greater obstinacy. Solution: On this, admonishing us on the basis of true \[authority\],
