---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 60vb
pdf_page: 124
sortable_pagination_id: 124.2
---

\[and\] of the other sacraments. As when such a \[priest\] seizes the body of the bishop and such an excommunicated person \[receives it\] — he hands the body of the bishop to sinful members, and thus sins as gravely as a donkey braying \[without restraint\] among the three \[tribes\]. He acts more gravely with the bishop who receives \[this man\] and \[yet\] the church communicates \[with him\] and they sin against imperial authority: a portion of the sin belongs to the one who fails to correct it. Solution: In these matters a double case must be distinguished. One in which a knight who is detaining a tithe does so willingly, with the church and bishop protesting. The other follows, in which \[knights\] retain tithes but from the concession of the bishop. And when the priest approaches such a knight, he should not make an impulsive decision in his mind, but should deliberate \[first\] about the tithe — whether it is doubtful — and therefore in such a case he ought not deny the Eucharist to him. But when it is clearly established that \[the knight\] is retaining the tithe against the church’s will, \[the priest\] must first admonish him without witnesses, then in the presence of witnesses, then let the bishop plainly declare \[the matter\]; and if nevertheless \[the knight\] appears incorrigible, the bishop should proceed against him with a brief, even publishing him \[as excommunicated\]. And proceeding in this order in certain matters not \[yet classified as\] criminal. It is thus permitted, \[though\] not \[always\] the practice. But if they exceed \[the matter\] to a greater penalty and he \[the bishop\] dissembles regarding \[those matters\], then the parish priest must go to the superior, and if the superior cannot on rational grounds correct the knight, then the priest absolves his own soul if \[the penalty\] is preferred. For from them in this matter \[illegible\] — excommunicated from the council, and that means: \[he is\] to be barred from the sacraments of the church. But if the knight approaches the bishop \[saying\]: “all the tithes are in my hands; I swear I declare: behold, I set aside for now the tithe already decreed. I am ready to stand by the mandate of the church, and I labor in every way so that the tithe

may be restored from lay hands and return to the church, and I am poor and have nothing with which to sustain myself and my sons and daughters. Grant me, as you grant to other poor persons, the fruits of that tithe for all of my life.” Then the bishop can, in view of the knight’s \[situation\], confer \[the fruits\].
