---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 61ra
pdf_page: 125
sortable_pagination_id: 125.1
---

the fruits of the tithe for the patient \[knight\] until \[the resolution\] is beneficently paid, or \[until\] whatever heirs may follow. For if a spiritual hereditary succession has been obtained — namely, to what extent a spiritual benefice can be possessed by anyone on hereditary right — no layman can hold the right to any tithe as proven \[possessor\]. Fruits, however, can be granted by the church or bishop up to a certain time, the legitimate cause being known, because I reprove everything, and anyone can confer fruits \[only\] to the extent of his possession \[upon\] a layman. The cause is valid if possession \[is duly established\]. What follows concerns the redemption of tithes. It is clear from the foregoing that tithes can be alienated \[from the church\] — unlike prebends, which cannot — but they can be redeemed from lay hands. This is stated in that decretal “Plures,” \[c.\] “Deus ref.” If one asks how they can be redeemed, I say plainly that they can be redeemed indifferently \[i.e., either\] by the bishop’s authority or without the bishop’s authority, and a cleric or monastery does not sin if they redeem a tithe from a knight without the bishop’s authority. And \[as to\] how someone can redeem a tithe in this way over the bishop’s objection and win the case: it is objected against him in this manner — “in touching another’s \[property\] against the will of the lord, that is, against the bishop, you commit theft,” as is argued in xii, q. v, \[c.\] “Penate” and xx, \[dist.\] “exode,” where \[it says\]: “You shall not steal.” We say that neither a monastery nor a cleric has the right to redeem tithes from the hands of laymen in the case of the bishop’s objection, since all tithes pertain by right to the bishop for disposal. If something is done — let the cleric hear it clearly — when some cleric redeems a tithe without the bishop’s authority, and then, driven by penalty, resigns it into the hands of the bishop or lord pope with the hope of obtaining it shortly, and the tithe is now obtained in title from the bishop — is the person who does this making the redemption simoniacal?

He obtains it at first. We reply that just as hope alone makes a usurer \[of someone\], so too a certain hope in such a resignation makes \[him\] simoniacal. For the resignation and \[the hope\] cannot coexist, just as

