---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 61rb
pdf_page: 125
sortable_pagination_id: 125.2
---

the vocal \[resignation\] takes away the \[real\] resignation if there is evasion. Likewise, \[consider\] the case where a knight reserves all the revenues of this tithe that he is detaining, from which he might eventually purchase it from someone. It is asked whether it is lawful for a cleric to redeem it from him in the manner in which he would redeem it \[if purchased\] from another. This seems so, because the tithe has come into the knight’s possession from what belongs to the church such as the tithe. Therefore since the knight has nothing or has acquired \[it\] only \[as an instrument\] in the cause — or \[through\] obtaining it \[from another\] — he has nothing whatsoever more than

### On the redemption of tithes

for from those revenues \[the knight has only\] what amounts to tithes conceded by the church — redeem it from him in the proper manner, for it belongs to the church. By the same reasoning, if in that said case the tithe were to be exchanged from one village for another or for a possession that he never merited — even \[in exchange\] for one more in value, and so on to infinity — since that final village is not at all, as has been shown, the \[property\] of the church, it can \[still\] be redeemed. And if beyond the principal sum he receives annual fruits, this is judged as usury in the manner of any layman. Likewise you can make the case stronger: if a knight is detaining a tithe, having wasted it, or if the place has been so shamed that he gives fruits from another property of his in place of it. Solution: Since all tithes arise from the possibility of one \[tithe\] being set against another in \[equal\] balance, it is clear that all fruits, revenues, or everything purchased or acquired through their fruits is properly the bishop’s, even though others may occupy \[them\] in place of those fruits \[i.e., instead of the tithes\]. Just as it is evident that in the village purchased through tithe fruits \[the right belongs to\] the bishop — if one village is exchanged for another, and that village for another, and so on — all will be the layman’s in \[their\] occupation and are reckoned as purchases, and can be redeemed from lay hands just as \[the original\] tithe can be redeemed. It must be noted that if a layman has been enjoying a tithe for a very long time, if it is lawful
