---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 62rb
pdf_page: 127
sortable_pagination_id: 127.2
---

he must do penance, he ought to approach a priest and say: “I stole this thing from someone. Tell the bishop so that I may name it now, that you may know. God helps, not man.” Likewise.

## X.

Suppose that a layman strips tithes from a church in order to press a claim against it, and that layman obtains letters to \[papal\] delegates \[ordering them\] to hear the case and restore \[the tithes\], as happened in fact before certain Parisian arbiters. What shall he do? Shall the judges take cognizance of that case? Solution. I do not believe that such letters could be issued with the knowledge of the supreme pope, because it is often the case that tithes cannot be restored once given \[to laymen\], since that would be against the natural law. If someone actually brought such letters to me, I would say to him: “Depart, you are a forger, and this is not right,” even though in truth the supreme pope may have sent them. I would tear them up. He could have obtained letters in another form in this manner: “I, stripped of my harvest, against one who retains it under the cover of the name of tithe.” Likewise, suppose there is a certain layman who \[owes\] a tithe, and he defrauds his priest of many of his tithes. He does penance, and confesses to the priest’s successor after the priest he defrauded has died. I ask: what counsel should be given to one confessing in this way. What \[advice\] should be heard. Now he must restore to the priest whatever \[the original priest\] lost; for the original priest is now dead, and this is proved as follows: this \[new\] priest succeeds the one who died in all \[rights\].

## \[X\]I.

The soul is tormented in purgatory at the hour of death and sees that it must make restitution to the person — whether poor individuals or the church — whose goods it seized by \[a little here\] or \[a little there\]. Solution, through a distinction of kinds of goods: some are hereditary, others personal, others ecclesiastical. Hereditary goods are those belonging to the patrimony of successors and heirs. Personal goods are those acquired through the effort of some person and accrued to that person — they are to be given to the poor for the souls of the deceased, or \[alternatively\] must be carried to the heirs. Other goods belong to the church alone. Sacred goods similarly, if they were acquired while the church held custody of them. Therefore the aforesaid tithes, being the property of the church, must be restored to it by the one who stole them. For \[I do\] not \[think\]
