---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 62va
pdf_page: 128
sortable_pagination_id: 128.1
---

that a church official or anyone else who holds \[property\] only from his own patrimony may grant back to himself what was restored to him from the goods of the church. On the contrary, whatever survives beyond what suffices for him and his household to live honestly belongs entirely to the poor and to his church. Hence books, fields, or other things useless to him which he ought to give to grandnephews or nephews as an ornament of dignity — this is the same as \[giving\] to the poor. But certain flatterers, placing everything under every judgment, wish to argue that knights can with a safe conscience retain tithes, and they adduce trivial and superficial arguments. Among these: “Because the lord pope is silent about this matter while it persists, therefore he approves it.” Others are drawn from the example of Charles Martel, who, when he summoned firmly the men of the kingdom and the prelates to come with him to aid the Church against the pagans, and \[the clergy\], being impotent from fear and poverty to provide soldiers, were unwilling to come with him, withheld tithes from the churches and gave them to the soldiers. Another \[argument\] is that long-standing contrary custom abrogates \[the law\], and especially in the matter of paying tithes, since no nations pay them in full — not even the Romans nor the Italians — who say they are always ready to shed their blood for the Church and are already tithed. Let us say whether they are obligated to pay tithes. Indeed today none pay tithes in Rome. If the first common argument is worthless, it is because by the same reasoning every sin by well-meaning people would have to be dismissed, since not a few sins are committed while \[the pope\] is silent — for although he is silent he does not approve. The second argument is worthless because evil must never be done that good may come of it. And thus Charles is incited to seize tithes from the churches and give them to those who would defend them. The rest, who neither disapprove of this \[behavior\] because they paid their share of the plunder, nor with whatever guilt — for mortal sin is defined as mortal — moreover all of their teaching can be refuted in this way: to pay tithes was a precept of both the New and the Old Testament. The same is confirmed in the Gospel by the one who said: “I tithe all that I possess, and \[give\] to men.” “These things ought to be done, those things not left undone.”
