---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 62vb
pdf_page: 128
sortable_pagination_id: 128.2
---

to tithe those things. Therefore, to omit \[tithes\] is to violate the law. The same is confirmed by the canon law in many chapters on all things to be returned. *Decime*, *C.* 16 *q.* 1 and *q.* 7. Since all these concordant \[canons established\] no contrary constitution that has subsequently been issued — but all modern authorities instructed by Alexander, and now confirmed by Gregory, state the same: namely, that tithes on all things shall be paid, as in the Decretals. All \[persons\] are bound to the payment of tithes on all that they acquire. Since we have stated this as our forewarning, we say: not even an angel from heaven can change the law, because as the Apostle said: “If anyone should declare otherwise, let him be anathema.” Those who most greatly glorify themselves and place themselves above angels in \[claiming to\] change \[this law\]: since the command \[to pay tithes\] was given as an insoluble \[obligation\], and since all things which are renewed year by year must be tithed, the question is what counsel should be given to simple persons who do not pay tithes in full, and to those who hold a portion \[of lands\] over them — are they bound to restore whatever they paid short? Solution. We believe that \[the person\] ought to approach the bishops of the localities and give satisfaction at their equitable ecclesiastical judgment, and because to despise tithes can release such persons from their debts in a conditional case, or he can similarly \[compel\] them in strict form with effect. Likewise the question is asked whether a knight who contemptuously refuses to pay tithes on all that he possesses can be saved in such a state. To this we say and declare that “he who offends in one thing is guilty of all.” He could have borne what those who are in the practice of paying tithes are able to bear; he stubbornly refused to understand so as to act rightly. Therefore those customs which are worthy of condemnation are reproved — of those who tithe only from crops or from the harvests of their peasants; and who pay a ninth rather than a tenth; and who buy out their share of the harvest from the reapers, so that with part untithed the remainder is left to the detriment of the church. This is the general rule, reminding us of tithes to be paid, that the custom is to renew \[the obligation\] on everything: on every \[kind of produce\], on every newborn, on all things that are renewed, on animals annually.
