---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 63ra
pdf_page: 129
sortable_pagination_id: 129.1
---

also from milk, cheese, butter, honey, and wax; from wool and wine; from all things that grow in the garden and orchard; from every craft, trade, and military service; and from every \[honest\] endeavor and lawful and honorable labor — tithes shall be paid fully and completely. But on those things acquired through future plunder, exaction, or fraud — \[no tithes are owed\], neither by the one paying nor by the priest receiving them. For usurers, plunderers, and fraudulent traders are excluded from all good works by their \[ill\] actions. However, there is a question about what they may unlawfully acquire yet lawfully possess — for example, what is acquired through prostitution, or gambling, or dicing, or the composition of poisons, or the sale of white lead, incense, and all those things emitted impiously \[and turned\] to no good use. The question is whether tithes are owed on these things. Given that Augustinus says that a harlot does not sin because she received \[payment\], but because she earned it \[by sinning\], and given that many harlots bequeath themselves as having made offerings pleasing to God: Solution. Let us say that if the shameful deed is on the other side — not from \[the side of\] sordid acts or the reckoning of vice and evil by which one deceived one’s neighbor — and if one acquired something by fraud, from such a fraudulent acquisition one ought neither to give a tithe nor an alms. \[One bears\] guilt on both sides of the shameful transaction, until \[the person\] comes to recognize it, and has confessed at least the partial truth of \[the obligation of\] possessing it — in that he is able to distribute alms from it, and is bound to pay tithes from it. And if she is a public prostitute, her offering or tithe ought not to be received by the church. If she is a thief or one capable of correction, she ought to be expelled from the camps lest she scandalize others. Regarding fornication, we believe that they owe tithes. Whatever is acquired fraudulently is to some degree subject to tithing. If, however, they acquire anything without fraud, those things must be tithed. But if a usurer or plunderer buys up the whole of the harvest \[i.e., the grain supply\] in some parish
