---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 64ra
pdf_page: 131
sortable_pagination_id: 131.1
---

today \[there are plunderers\] without \[the excuse of\] the poor — of these pseudo-prelates. It is established that when a prince occupies \[territory\] by the authority of God commanding and enjoining, it is not deemed plunder. Just as Joshua occupied the Promised Land, expelled the kings from it and seized it, \[yet\] obedient to the divine command and handing over that land to his sons — to whom it was owed, having been promised first to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to whom it had been granted by the Lord — just as it was not theft that they carried away the golden and silver vessels from Egypt. So, with God as judge regarding the one who seizes a place, those \[persons\] justly receive wages from him \[in return\] for laboring with mud and bricks, in which Egypt had long exercised them. Such persons \[receive\] a fitting reward. What shall we say today about that prince who stirs himself in his kingdom for conquest, expelling the legitimate heirs and occupying \[the land\] by violence, settling that colony and \[illegible\] soldiers \[illegible\] at \[illegible\] his own \[illegible\]. Can such persons be saved in such a state? \[illegible\] Now we shall speak of Charles Martel, who, having attacked Girart of Roussillon thirteen times, in each \[instance constructing\] individual monasteries, and Girart having attacked him eleven times, thereupon built monasteries from it, so that those same monasteries were demolished in the plunder. And it is necessarily the case that one of the two sides was unjust, and that the monasteries which either of them built were built from plunder. And those monasteries still standing today, with the heirs always protesting even now — and the monks from the very first year of that violent plunder \[still living on the proceeds of\] an extinguished monastery were sinning mortally — for that monastic \[foundation\] was truly plunder, and such \[plunder\] is subsequently purged only if the taint of that plunder is \[eliminated\]. For the heirs who have protested up to this day \[are still reclaiming\], and it is still better concerning the retention of those goods. Because, as the law says, justice is never purged
