---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 64rb
pdf_page: 131
sortable_pagination_id: 131.2
---

from theft until \[the wrong\] has been purged by its possessor. But up to now it has never been purged — down to us, the heirs, infected in direct line by the pure taint of the plunder. If at any point they were to raise an objection against prescription, they would claim purging yet \[the obstacle\] is not removed — which proves that it is not. For even prescription is regulated differently in other forensic cases than in the penitential forum where \[illegible\] of prescription can do nothing to conceal or obscure \[illegible\] nor \[illegible\] confession is sold, so that when a man who is guilty in this matter goes to confess and acknowledges his debts, recognizing that he sinned greatly — \[and sinned\] even more greatly when he gave what was plundered to another, and still more gravely when he obligated another’s property by pledging what was stolen. Likewise, suppose a certain prince upon whom \[illegible\] substituted a person under someone else’s \[authority\], substituted a child born of another \[illegible\] or \[illegible\] the birth, and that child recognized himself to be illegitimate and now pretends to be the heir — is he not then bound to restore everything to the rightful heirs?

Likewise, many princes \[illegible\] from their most wicked custom have instituted \[a rule\] that if any ship, itself broken or in some way damaged in a shipwreck, should come to harbor at their shore, all goods found in that ship shall be confiscated for the shore \[illegible\], removing the ship \[illegible\] and \[illegible\] and \[illegible\] they add \[injuries\] to affliction. Although such \[victims\] deserve to be consoled \[illegible\] their shipwreck. This custom is still maintained — not only by the elected princes \[illegible\], but also by ecclesiastical \[lords\], as is \[the case\] in Brittany among certain princes \[illegible\] and in Lombardy. Furthermore they condemn the wickedness \[illegible\] of supplying any assistance in a shipwreck nor \[illegible\] assistance them \[illegible\]. Not only are \[these men\] plunderers, but by this most wicked custom they become murderers. What shall we say about the prelates of these \[princes\] who oppose one another yet do not suppress these so openly notorious \[and\] eminent offenses, and who approve of the church’s association with such persons — of whom it is agreed that all are incorrigible, and whose
