---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 64va
pdf_page: 132
sortable_pagination_id: 132.1
---

it is for the good of the people to communicate with them in the sacraments, and yet he communicates validly in the public forum with \[even\] one of them, since neither dispensation nor tolerance can have any place here. Likewise the same question arises concerning the many tolls, and transit taxes, and road duties. It is agreed that when the cause ceases, the effect must cease. But in these cases the cause for receiving anything has ceased, and therefore the effect ought also to cease. Yet today no one \[raises this point\], and in these cases the cause has ceased, because no one \[now does what formerly justified the toll\]. Indeed formerly in Gaul there were full \[roads\] and \[illegible\] and \[roads\] full of plunderers and impediments, with merchants who frequented the public roads being harassed from fair to fair by lords of castles and princes; and at that time they established safe-conducts and escorts to avoid those who attacked merchants along their routes, and then it was lawful to receive fixed \[charges\] from the merchants, and it was lawful to do this today too — if escorts thus defended them. But some of these \[conductors\] today exist without danger, and \[if\] there is no need of such an escort, the princes ought not to impose an exaction on merchants where they \[the princes\] do no labor. And this is unlawful. But it is otherwise when he must labor in escorting them. If this difficult objection is raised: in a given case it may be lawful for a prince to receive something in place of a toll from one whom he defended once during the year — and much more so to receive something from the townsmen if he defends them the whole year — so that he may lawfully raise tallages from them by reason of his defense, and may press them only on his own land and not on the lands of others. Solution to the first \[point\]: let us say the distinction must be made thus: either a prince attacks the enemies of the Church by authority of the Church or led by the authority of the pope for this purpose, or \[he attacks\] against believers or unbelievers, either in a just war or in an unjust war. If he fights against infidel enemies by authority of the Church — as in Missia \[illegible\], the regional contingent \[illegible\], against \[illegible\] him by the preaching of the Apostles, and \[that territory\] is truly a heritage of \[the Church\] by right of \[its\] lesser \[obligation\] — he lawfully occupies that region from the prince, because he takes it from others to give it to \[the Church\]; but what is the Church’s own should be restored in this case to the soldier and the bishop.
