---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 67va
pdf_page: 138
sortable_pagination_id: 138.1
---

And the staff of support: they are bound to compel those \[who hold goods\] to exhibit them so that they may be distributed; nor does it then matter what the highest \[authority\] does, because now \[the prelate\] bears the sword, the rod, or the staff for this purpose. For if in sustaining subjects he compels them to the canonical hours, much more is he bound to compel them to the real hours that must be fulfilled, which consist in the seven works of mercy — following the example of Theobald, Count of Mortagne, who by the counsel of the wise marvelously and vigorously compelled his subjects to more generous almsgiving when he saw that so great a pestilence of famine was imminent. But against this: coerced services do not please \[God\]; and the intent likewise \[cannot be weighed\]. Furthermore, the belongings of subjects are their own by right. Likewise, if a prince or prelate extorts them for the use of the poor, is it lawful to swear or to receive anything — as Augustinus says — so that the poor may be fed, and does not such extortion cause harm to

the poor? The solution: This must be believed \[and resolved\] through a distinction. Subjects are either true possessors of their own goods — whether laypeople, or clergy who hold patrimonial goods — or they are in the position of stewards, like those clergy and monks who have nothing as properly their own patrimony. In the first case they are to be admonished and induced by every means to render more generous almsgiving to the poor in a time of famine, but no violence is to be used against them. But in the second case, they are not only to be admonished to do this, but also to be compelled, just as, for example, those who in seed-time gather wheat for famine-relief, \[collecting\] among the needy scattered \[stores\] — these are to be compelled to distribute them to those perishing of hunger; and whoever retains \[stores\] is not \[acting justly\]. Hence such \[persons\] are to be compelled by another \[authority\] to \[distribute\] by the necessity \[of the situation the obligation of\] almsgiving.

## XIX

Likewise it is the custom in France and England that when barons die and leave minor heirs, the prince then seizes their goods, and forces marriages upon \[the heirs\], calling these coerced arrangements pleasing to God.
