---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 67vb
pdf_page: 138
sortable_pagination_id: 138.2
---

A young woman is left \[as an heir\] and is joined to a less noble \[match\], or a young male heir is married to some ignoble woman — here it is asked whether the prince is bound to make restitution for everything he received to the harm of such heirs. On this point, even worldly law says: if any guardian of a ward’s estate mismanages the ward’s goods — indeed, all his goods — he must either preserve everything for the value of the ward, or if he has wasted anything, he is bound to make full restitution. And the aforesaid prince is bound to the same. But against this: the customs of kingdoms have been approved by which princes can claim all the aforesaid things by the wardship of heirs and their estates, taking the aforesaid revenues and appropriating them. The solution: We believe without distinction that a prince who confiscates the \[wardship\] of minors and profits from the sale \[of marriage\] is bound to

proportionate restitution after deducting the necessary expenses \[he incurred\]; and the other corrupt customs which bring harm to them \[the heirs\] are to be abolished, because cupidity brought them into being. Likewise, it is asked about the one who finds another’s property — whether on a public road, in a field, or in a house — what he ought to do: he should give it to a priest, and what should that priest advise him. On this the law says that among the goods of no one are those which have been occupied

by concession \[by someone else\]. If the law of nature says: “Do not do to another what you do not wish done to yourself,” and the Gospel says: “Love your neighbor as yourself” — if your thing were found, you would want it returned or handed over to the rightful owner, and you would want anyone to treat you with love by restoring it; and so you ought to do to others likewise. Furthermore, you ought to attend here to all the customs, and not sin by usurping another’s property. Where it is possible, it may happen that the heirs of the one whose treasure we found are still living, or the person who hid the treasure is still alive, or money that was buried at usury has been dug up and disclosed, and \[the original owner\] has been despoiled — or the heirs of that money are still living.
