---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 68ra
pdf_page: 139
sortable_pagination_id: 139.1
---

\[Bound to\] restitution. Furthermore, such a treasure found belongs more to another than to the one in whose field it lies — for it belongs approximately to whoever owned the field. \[Yet truly\] it is the property of the one whose treasure it was. We have stated \[above\] that if you come upon any thing to be recovered, you ought diligently to inquire to whom it belonged and restore it to its owner. But if you cannot do this, you ought to hand it over to the custody of the Church to be dispensed at the judgment of a good steward, and he who is appointed \[should\] distribute it to the poor whose \[property\] that thing was. But if the thing found is a buried treasure that was hidden, human law says: if you find a treasure in your own field, the treasure ought to be yours. But if a treasure is found in another’s field, it ought to belong to the owner of the field. But by the common custom of almost all kingdoms it has been decreed that if anyone in any kingdom finds a treasure, it shall belong to the one whose kingdom it is; and if anyone finds a treasure and does not disclose it \[illegible\] nor \[report it\], and by common agreement there is a penalty for this just as for others. What does the priest say to the peasant who finds a treasure in that field and consults him about it? If the priest says “hide the treasure and do not give it to that prince,” if he is afterward convicted of this he will be punished with death. But if he gave the treasure to the prince, he adds oil to the fire and a sword into the hand of a madman — for perhaps the prince will bear down all the more harshly in the subjugation of churches and the poor. The finder of the treasure which he found has \[it\] discharged. The solution: I would counsel such a person in the aforesaid case to dispense the treasure thus found at the discretion of the Church, or entrust it out of fear to one person in the Church, for the Church’s own use and for the poor and for the replenishment of the Church, according to the meaning of that Gospel text: “The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field” — so that if perchance the lord \[*portinsor*\] should accuse him before the prince, he has the defense of the Church.
