---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 68rb
pdf_page: 139
sortable_pagination_id: 139.2
---

On whose counsel the treasure is dispensed, and the Church would put itself forward in defense of that person. But if the prince acted maliciously and would fly against the Church because of this, the Church ought to invoke that evangelical law: “The kingdom of heaven is like \[a treasure hidden in a field\],” and they ought also to allege that not even by custom \[can it be taken\].

## On sacrilege.

After these matters, sacrilege must be discussed: it must be seen what sacrilege is, what species of sacrilege there are, and with what penalty sacrileges are to be punished. Sacrilege is the violation of a sacred thing in truth, or the usurpation of the same. Sacrilege is committed for three reasons: by reason of place, of thing, or of person. By reason of place, when the immunity of a church or cemetery is violated. By reason of thing, when a consecrated thing or one actually assigned to sacred use is usurped. By reason of person, when an injury is done to an ecclesiastical person, whether with or without the laying on of hands: Cause 17, question 4, the chapter “Si quis puel\[las\],” by the violent laying on of hands — therein that question, the chapter “Si quis suadente diabolo,” of which we have spoken above. Sacrilege is moreover committed in many ways. For whoever steals secretly from a sacred place commits sacrilege: Cause 17, question 3, the chapter “Baldagi,” the chapter “Iniquum.” The penalty of sacrilegious persons according to the laws is such that, on account of the ecclesiastical penalty itself, those who commit outrage in the church become guilty of sacrilege. They are to undergo capital judgment in sentence according to the canons, so that they are to be excommunicated, as is provided in Cause 18, question 3, “Sacrilegium.” And he who is received \[into communion again\] ought to receive proportionate penance, with due account taken of his age, the crime, or satisfaction as stated above. But if he is incorrigible, he ought to be kept in prison on bread of tribulation and water of affliction until he comes to his senses. And it is asked what is to be done today about the worst perpetrators of all sacrileges — namely princes and their officials who devastate churches through wars and \[troubled\] times — and especially whether persons of this sort are to be received by bishops into communion of the sacraments.
