---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 68va
pdf_page: 140
sortable_pagination_id: 140.1
---

And where bishops order \[the clergy\] to communicate with such persons as well — since it is evident to all that they are arsonists and sacrilegious persons — if \[the clergy\] repel such persons — as \[bishops\] have recently commanded they should not — they are immediately suspended by the bishop. If they do not admit them, they nurture them in error, and thus run with the thief; the lesser perpetrators rightly say that such persons should not be repelled in any case, so long as they are received \[back\] by the bishop. But if there is truly no solution to their \[case\]: suppose that both you and the whole Church cry out that a man is a sacrilegious person, and everyone believes the bishop to be worse than him — as a receiver of such persons and an attacker of the good — and you know that by receiving such a person you cause your entire parish to speak ill of you. Therefore it is better to believe Alexander, who excommunicates all such persons and their like and their abettors, and thus you ought rather to abandon your parish and submit to excommunication or suspension than to communicate with such a sacrilegious person.

### xxv.

### Next follows on the abductors of persons.

For a person is called an abductor for a twofold reason: for plunder of goods, or for the abduction of persons — not only of women but also of males. Abduction moreover is twofold: either the violent abduction of a body, as Isidorus attests in the book of the Etymologies — as is provided in Cause 36, question 1: “Abduction is the violent carrying off of a woman.” And the same question, section 2, the chapter “De puellis,” in which the penalty of abduction is determined. There it is said about abductors: “The holy synod has decreed: if they are clergy, \[they are to be removed\] from their rank; if laypeople, let them be excommunicated.” And in the fifth chapter, Gregorius says: “If anyone \[abducts a woman\].” And if anyone abducts a woman consecrated to religion, according to the laws he is to be executed, and the woman who has been violated is merely to be handed over to the monastery. As is provided in Cause 27, question 1, the chapter “Si quis raperit.” Concerning these matters we have sufficient \[discussion\] in the same question on abduction.
