---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 68vb
pdf_page: 140
sortable_pagination_id: 140.2
---

\[illegible\] “If any of the monks,” and so forth — those also about various sins, and likewise about knights. But if the question is raised whether an abductor can contract \[marriage\] with the woman abducted, we say he cannot unless the vice has been purged through penance. As is provided in Cause 36, the final question, the chapter “Prohibe.” 24.

### Next follows on the abduction of males, which is well established.

But the more abominable it is, the heavier the penalty ought to be — concerning which indeed a holy sanction has ordained that the laws should rise up in arms. Let us arm ourselves within with the sword of vengeance and strike those of this kind; for they are guilty or will be. Hence Alexander in the Lateran Council ordained as follows: “If anyone is found to have labored under that incontinence on account of which \[divine wrath\] poured down upon the sons of Sodom and consumed the five cities with fire — if they are clergy, let them be cast down from the clergy.” Hence Augustinus in Cause 32, question 7, says in that chapter: “Those shameful acts violate indeed the fellowship we have with God, and with our own nature of which he is the author himself — \[this fellowship is violated\] by the power of lust to defile, and he strongly condemns in the fifth chapter: the natural use, and so forth.” Hence Augustinus, in his commentary on Genesis, \[says that\] the Lord almost desired not to become incarnate, because he punished so enormous a sin perpetrated in human form. Likewise in Genesis it is said that the Lord was angry because he \[Onan\] spilled his seed upon the ground. Likewise even one who labors under this vice in the future — \[shall he\] be upheld for standing in judgment or in testimony, or in advocacy, or in any useful office? Hence the law commanded in Deuteronomy that such persons be held infamous, and in detestation of so great a crime, that whole famous valley together with the five cities sank into the Dead Sea, retaining nothing of itself; and in one place in the book of Kings it is said that the Lord punished the Philistines in the more secret parts of the buttocks, and Hieronymus assigns this cause — namely, because they were Sodomites. For mice swarming from that \[place\] gnawed their intestines. Likewise the prophet Amos says: “He set us \[…\]”
