---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 69vb
pdf_page: 142
sortable_pagination_id: 142.2
---

\[a cleric\] to have private property. Those opposing chapters that say a cleric has private property speak of patrimonial or personal goods. If it is asked what the difference is between a secular canon and a regular canon or monk in the stewardship entrusted to them — we say that neither these nor those are personal disbursement-holders or usufructuaries in the goods of the Church. But in this they differ: the one who is in the cloister cannot give to the poor or to anyone else from the goods of the Church except at the abbot’s command. But the secular canon can, without the bishop’s permission, give to the poor from the goods of his prebend. But if he gives to a poor person — either out of popular fame-seeking alone, or out of an overweening dignity seeking an easier outcome, or through shameful traffic, or through other dishonorable causes — he is bound to make restitution. But if he gives to someone for time-honored reasons, according to that \[text\]: “To whom honor, honor; to whom tribute, tribute” — and that: “Outstripping one another in showing honor” — so long as in honorable causes of frequent occurrence he is not bound to restitution. From what has been said, the solution of the second question is now clear, by which it is asked whether it is lawful for a cleric to make a will — which is lawful for him neither from the goods of the Church nor from sacerdotal goods, but from personal or patrimonial goods; as Alexander shows in that decretal, found in the first volume under the title “de testamentis et voluntatibus,” and in that other decretal of the same title, \[illegible\], and in that \[decretal\] “Ad hec littera;” and the same is provided in Cause 16, question 4, the chapter \[illegible\], and \[the same concerning\] how the goods of one church ought not to be carried off to other churches. Alexander likewise shows this in that same decretal “Cum in officiis.” What shall we say about the custom of the Church and the head of the Church, by which clergy today commonly make wills from Church goods — perpetually from the movable goods of the Church, and from immovable \[goods\]? To this it must be said that since this custom is damaging and corrupt, it is therefore to be cast aside, as is stated in the aforesaid decretal. At this point, to moderate something from those goods for some utility in the rationale of wills — thus by reason of alms \[*elemo-*\]
