---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 71ra
pdf_page: 145
sortable_pagination_id: 145.1
---

## xvi.

Likewise: to leave someone to die of hunger is to kill him. Therefore, if you do not feed someone dying of hunger, you kill him. If you do not feed a person dying of hunger when you could, you kill him. And if you do not feed this person dying of hunger when you could, you kill him. Solution: A distinction must be drawn: that when a predicate is applied without qualification, the proposition is false; but when it is applied to three in common, it is true. Hence this is false: “If you do not feed a person dying of hunger when you could, you kill him.” But this is true: “If you do not feed a person dying of hunger when you could, you kill a person dying of hunger” — because no inconvenience follows from it. For this argument is false: “If you do not feed this person dying of hunger when you could, you kill a person dying of hunger. And if you do not feed that person dying of hunger, you kill a person dying of hunger.” Objection: “If you do not see a man, you are someone who does not see a man. And if you do not see this man, you are someone who does not see a man.” This solution is therefore fitting with respect to these cases. If the objection is pressed more strenuously: suppose that when you could have helped either of the two, you help neither, and the death of both can be laid at your door because you could have freed each one by helping him, and freed them \[by your action\] — the death of the other is imputed to you, and it must be reckoned that one of them died. I grant this. In no way could you have prevented one of them from dying, for you could only save one of them insofar as it lay with you, and since preventing both from dying lay beyond your power, it cannot be imputed to you that one of them died. This we concede. For in this there is no doubt. But against this: you passed by both the poor man dying of hunger and the dying man who was laid low by your act. Likewise, the death of both is imputed to you; therefore the death of the other is imputed to you, because this man’s death is imputed to you and the other’s death \[is also imputed to you\], and it must be reckoned that you caused one of them to die — which is proved. Likewise: suppose here there are all men just as needy as those two, and you have only enough for one of them, and there is no one who could give enough to even one of them; indeed they all die. The death of this one is imputed \[to you\]. The death of this one \[too\]. And so for each, and there is no more reason in the case of one than another, and
