---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 71rb
pdf_page: 145
sortable_pagination_id: 145.2
---

the deaths of all are imputed to you. But this is indeed true: each death is imputed to you — because if there is greater reason for the death of one than for the death of another, it is certain that you killed someone; and if there is no greater reason for one than for another, it is still certain that you killed both. But if the argument proceeds from the singular to the plural, such a composition is invalid, because it proceeds to the thing in the same manner as to a composite. So that: “the death of each one of them is imputed to you,” and “the deaths of these men are imputed to you.” Objection: This man can carry individual stones or all the stones, and these he can carry individually or these stones all together. But this — that the death of each one of them is imputed \[to you\] — is a case of ambiguity arising from composition and division, by which a statement can be made about a thing and a true proposition formed, for it is to be imputed regarding each one individually that he died; but a statement cannot be made about the proposition or about the thing through this locution “the death of each one of them \[is imputed\],” and the thing itself is false, because he could not prevent this outcome from occurring, namely that some of them died. Similarly this can be objected.

## xvii.

Concerning spiritual sustenance: the lord God consults and advises the Parisian \[master\] to bring forth his talent if it has been \[granted\] in abundance. Since there are towns and hamlets in which very many are dying of spiritual hunger, who could have common bread — and in accordance with the Psalm: “Break your bread for the hungry” \[Isaiah 58:7\] — and the servant who hid his talent in a napkin was accursed by the Lord \[Matthew 25:25–26\]. If you in these places, namely, deny spiritual alms to those dying of spiritual hunger, you are killing them, since you were bound to love them as yourself. As Augustinus has said: “It is not great to feed bellies soon to die, and it is the greatest thing to feed souls eternally in the hope of \[life after\] death” — and the Lord will reproach all these things at judgment. \[Preachers\] take care of bodily and spiritual matters and guide those entrusted to them. What then shall we say — shall we deny that all those are dying of spiritual hunger to whom the spiritual nourishment of God
