---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 71va
pdf_page: 146
sortable_pagination_id: 146.1
---

we deny. Solution: It is certain that we are bound, whether in public or in private when opportunity or authority is given to us, to dispense the nourishment of God to such people. If we hold them back \[from such nourishment\] and advance our own position and dignity in this matter, this is a matter of the greatest concern, because no sacrifice pleases God so well as zeal for souls. Wherefore those who, led by pride or avarice or sloth or timidity, disdain to help those who are dying of spiritual hunger or who are in the greatest need of the nourishment of God, sin mortally by omission. Wherefore this is far more dangerous \[a failure\] than \[merely\] to possess \[something temporal\] today.

### viii.

But one may ask: do those who do not help those in extreme need, whether by corporeal or spiritual sustenance, sin mortally? What is the life of one who waits until they have to breathe their last before he is of any help? For then nothing is lacking, and it seems that I ought to provide \[help\] piecemeal and in the article of death, but that I am bound to help him before extreme need \[sets in\] — which I grant. If I cannot \[help\] against the obstacles and contrary forces, then I am still bound to help him. But this I know: that even in extreme necessity I am bound to help him in both spiritual and temporal things, and otherwise I sin mortally. Likewise: “Do not give what is holy to dogs” \[Matthew 7:6\] — so the divine word says in that passage, that \[the word\] is not to be poured out in a golden vessel \[before swine\]. It is asked here: should I withhold \[the word\] where dogs and pigs thrust themselves in? — it seems so, because we are all bound to love our neighbor as ourselves, and we are all bound to feed them all if they die of hunger, and we are also bound to feed dogs. But that authority says the contrary. Solution: There are multiple reasons for ceasing to preach, as is stated regarding that passage in the Psalm: “I have hidden your words in my heart” \[Psalm 119:11\] etc. If the future audience are dogs or pigs or thieves, or incapable of understanding, preaching is not to be constant. But if among them there are some from whose conversion there is hope
