---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 71vb
pdf_page: 146
sortable_pagination_id: 146.2
---

of blessing, then for their sake one must not cease \[to preach\]. Likewise: suppose a man is so miserly that he cannot be induced to give me the bread he has, and it is certain that without it he will undoubtedly die. I come to him, and I would gently give a fair price for his bread, which he will not permit me to take. What shall I do? — for it is more than I owe him to hold out or give from that \[bread\], since I have nothing else, and it is clear he will die of hunger, and I could help him; and if I do not, except that God can help him without me, \[his death\] is not to be imputed to me. Solution: I am bound to offer him some of that bread, lest hunger kill him, lest I let him die of hunger. Nor am I afterwards bound to repay the price; but if he does not permit me to take from that bread with my own hand, then I must pay the price. Thus if I am bound to take it by force and by constraint, then it is an obligation on behalf of the one who needs it and the one who has it. Likewise: you see someone in extreme necessity and you give him money not out of good will; if \[you were\] repentant in mind and intent when giving, and somewhat more contrite afterwards, this man also deals with you as in a market exchange, and pours the goods back. Let it be said: hence you held that money out to him with a repentant intention in giving it, and you \[gave it\] unwillingly, and you are permitted to demand it back. Which we concede. What if there were one hundred poor men, and one hundred \[who could give\] enough this year, each of whom could support one of those poor men beyond his own necessities, and all pass by those poor men without helping them, except you alone — are you in such a case bound to help all of them if they are in the greatest need? And if all of them are in extreme necessity, are you bound to pour out everything you have in one day for them, lest they die of hunger — so that nothing remains for you today, and tomorrow you die with them? For indeed you know that if you pour out everything today, you will be forced to die with the others tomorrow; and you know that it is the mark of a wise man to reserve something for the future, as Joseph did in the time of famine.

### xi.
