---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 73rb
pdf_page: 149
sortable_pagination_id: 149.2
---

verse dioceses. Nor can an abbot serve in different monasteries, nor can one husband \[serve\] different wives — grant this. By the same reasoning, no cleric can properly belong to different dignities or different churches, because whoever takes another wife on top of the first commits adultery. Likewise, there is the general precept of the Gospel: “He who has two tunics, let him give one” \[Luke 3:11\], and with much greater force, he who has two prebends should give one and not keep it. Moreover, where will he find a worthy person in need? Likewise, each person is bound to love his neighbor as himself, and incomparably more the souls of his neighbors than his own body, and if he has the cure of souls he can in no way retain two churches or prebends. Likewise: “Feed one dying of hunger,” whether of spiritual or bodily hunger — and you cannot feed \[all those\] in so many prebends or churches. Likewise, \[prebends\] are material and not spiritual things; and when someone fails to feed those he is bound to feed, though it may be otherwise and especially in his own person, it is a mortal sin, according to: “He who does not labor shall not eat” \[2 Thessalonians 3:10\]. Likewise, when you were installed in this church you swore to observe its customs, and when you received that prebend you swore residence — since it is a feodal obligation — and you swore the same when installed in the other church; and you will be either a perjurer or you will give up one. Likewise, no layman is occupied with the services of three or four prebends individually or any others equally — for he thus breaks the chain and the bridle and every restraint. With much greater force, then, should several prebends be distributed in future for the sake of the souls of the poor rather than \[all\] conferred on one cleric, who thereby becomes like a thoroughbred horse roaming the household. Likewise, prebends were established so that each one called to them would serve better and remain better established, and he who labors more eats more, and he who does not labor does not eat — since in different \[churches\] he cannot labor, yet if he is in \[them all at once he\] can eat. Solution to these last arguments, which are:

## iii.

To the powerful \[arguments\], we say that those are not
