---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 73va
pdf_page: 150
sortable_pagination_id: 150.1
---

in a state of salvation who retain several churches, or prebends, or dignities in different churches, with certain exceptions. One exception is that which Alexander established: namely, where a church or prebend is so slender that it does not suffice for a man’s food and clothing — and in such a case it is permitted for someone to hold two that together suffice, that is to say, that they ought to suffice according to the judgment of a reasonable man. For the text does not speak of sufficiency for a miser — since in the matter at hand it is what suffices for someone, but speaks of that which is defined in law as what ought to be deemed sufficient. The second case is where someone holds one titled prebend and another in commendation for a time — which he holds in trust for the benefit of the poor until a worthy person is found to whom that prebend may be conferred, since he holds the commended \[prebend\] as someone else’s property; this he holds for the use of the poor for a time. This was lawful in the time of the primitive Church, when worthy persons were rarely found and prebends were in great abundance. The third case is where someone who holds one prebend in one church and does not wish to hold \[another\] in it is commanded by the lord Pope to retain another for a time on account of public utility, lest that church collapse or fall back into the hands of ancient simoniac or other heretical prelates. In this case he \[the Pope\] even sends \[someone\] into that church as a reward for that man, as happened with the Parisian cantor, whose presence would be useful to every church if it were possible. Therefore the supreme judgment is what others take as their example to imitate. For my part, today I would not advise even that most worthy man or any other to hold two prebends of which one would suffice, on account of the wickedness of the example — because those who are evil and wish to hold several \[prebends\] by citing his example do not attend to his original intention, or to the benefit to those churches if he were to continue for a length of time, but say: “Such-and-such a man of such standing holds two prebends; it is lawful for us to do likewise, and God permits us the same” — and by such reasoning these things are resolved
