---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 78va
pdf_page: 160
sortable_pagination_id: 160.1
---

say that \[a crime is not notorious\] unless through confession or through conviction at law. Secondly, that the man is not innocent — take this senator, concerning whom there is no doubt in law that he is indeed a senator. Moreover he knows that, just as one mangy sheep corrupts the whole flock, so this man who is a rotten member in the church corrupts the whole body. And he knows that Augustinus, father of fathers, said that the member which scandalizes the whole church must profitably be amputated. And he knows that he can strike this man — who corrupts the simple in the church — with the sword of excommunication. In accordance with that passage in the Gospel where, among those buying and selling in the temple, he made a whip of cords and cast them out without any formal examination of a manifest cause — for they were manifest simoniacs. But concerning the adulteress, whose sin was hidden:

## art. The woman: who accuses her and what.

and he said to her, “No one, Lord,” and he said, “Neither do I condemn you.” On account of these and similar arguments, whatever others may say, it seems to us that there are three ways in which someone may be condemned in a case. The first, because it is contained by justice. The second, because someone confesses spontaneously in court. The third, because the infamy is so great that no ignorance can conceal such a theft \[illegible\] or it is committed publicly — such as the public trade in doves \[i.e., the sale of sacred things\], and \[illegible\] such open dealing, and those usurers whom the whole neighborhood knows, and those priests or clerics whom the intimate knowledge of all assuredly knows to keep concubines — as the authority of Pope Nicholas argues, who says that no one ought to hear the mass of a priest whom he undoubtedly knows to keep a concubine, as it is held at dist. xxxii, cap. “nullus,” and cap. “preter hec.” But against this, put forward that authority of Augustinus received into the letter to the Corinthians: Jos\[eph\]
