---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 79ra
pdf_page: 161
sortable_pagination_id: 161.1
---

unless \[they\] were installed by the presbytery to carry out divine offices. Those who are obedient to the constitution thus made, let them remain; let them receive no portion from the church. So that, if it is established that such notorious persons are ministering at the altar, and it is established that they are excommunicated, then if I communicate with them I know that I am excommunicated. I ought by no means to hear the mass of such persons, and I ought not to withdraw on account of the scandal of those who are with me from the company of such persons — witness Jerome, who says: “It is better that a scandal arise than that the truth of doctrine or of justice be abandoned.” If someone says, how would you proceed against those whose crime is notorious in this way, when there is no full determination of this in law through any authority or any canon — and yet Alexander in many Decretals says that they may be forewarned and compelled to abjure their concubines, lest upon returning they incur the prior \[sentence\], as is held in the title on the cohabitation of clerics and women, in the chapter “clericos,” and the chapter “si quis,” and the chapter “de sacerdotibus.” Moreover, the crime of such persons is notorious. If therefore there is a place for that \[rule\] in the case of a crime — because, as the authority of Innocentius in the place which \[he cites\] requires to be condemned says — To these and similar cases, some respondents say at this point that they do not say nothing is notorious to others; but not according to the reasons that move someone more toward believing that the crime is manifest and notorious. And because dissimilar reasons have moved different people differently, they do not believe something to be notorious that others, not by the same reasons, find notorious to someone. And in this are found the conflicting chapters we noted above. But we do not much approve this solution. I say in response to the matter proposed that where someone publicly keeps a concubine, and if he wished to deny the crime he could not do so in law, and the same crime is bare — and the naked arguments that argue him guilty of such a crime — and where the whole church sees him dwelling with his concubine and her children, which are manifest proofs walking about in the crime — these
