---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 79rb
pdf_page: 161
sortable_pagination_id: 161.2
---

will convict him of the crime of incontinence. With prior admonition, or \[knowledge of\] the personal sin, if such a person is found altogether incorrigible, he is to be altogether avoided — because, even if the crime is notorious, nonetheless out of abundance of caution this kind of pre-warning and initial reproof is required, which, as that chapter “si qua est” establishes, consists in this: this is the difference between a hidden crime and a manifest one — that in the case of a hidden crime witnesses are always needed in order to proceed to communication \[of sentence\], but in the case of a manifest crime witnesses are not needed to proceed against someone with manifest crime.

## On the vow

For a fuller understanding — of baptism, marriage, and the other sacraments, of which we will speak below — it is first necessary to treat of the vow. We must consider what a vow is, what its elements are, what are the particular uncertainties, and which vows admit of dispensation or commutation; and finally, on the vow of religious and of the ordained, which, though annexed to holy orders, \[must be separately examined\]. A vow is a deliberate resolution of the mind, confirmed by that resolution, concerning those things that pertain to human salvation or to religion. It can be called a “pledging,” because the emission of a vocal expression does not constitute a vow, as is clear from the opening \[of the question\] — if indeed the definition applies rather to those things that pertain to religion or human salvation. For if a pledge pertains to those things relating to marriage, or to a legal judgment, or to those things that are against salvation, it will not be a pledging confirmed by deliberate resolution of the mind, because if someone affirms something from some other marriage, that confirmation by deliberation will not be a vow. But in common usage it is. Behold, one man has formed the intention of going to \[Santiago de\] Compostela or of entering a cloister. Another man has known the same thing in his mind. The question arises: what is the difference between this man and that one? The answer is: none. For what the one has as a purpose, the other has as a vow. And that purpose is just the same as that vow. So there is no difference whatsoever between such a purpose and such a
