---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 79va
pdf_page: 162
sortable_pagination_id: 162.1
---

## iii. The vow.

Solution: Every vow is a purpose, and a precise one. For a purpose is either ambiguous in the mind, or understood with determination, or not confirmed by deliberate resolution of the mind: it is brief and imprecise. Such a purpose is not a vow. But if a purpose is manifestly confirmed by deliberate resolution of the mind, and concerns those things that pertain to human salvation or to religion, it is a vow. From what has been said it is clear that every vow — without what has been described as the \[verbal\] pledging — is indeed a vow, but not every \[verbal\] pledging is a vow. And no vow will be merely oral. And if someone vows \[only\] unless he enter the cloister by the hand of an abbot, and he does not enter the cloister, he \[truly\] vows — the abbot cannot vow thus, namely to enter the cloister — because such a vow is not held \[to bind\] if not thus confirmed by deliberate resolution of the mind. Because the church does not judge concerning hidden intentions but only concerning external acts, if someone publicly vows aloud to confine himself within a cloister, the church can compel him to fulfil that vow, even if it was not confirmed interiorly in the mind — or its opposite were true interiorly. As regards God, however, this does not bind by a vocal vow where the mind is contrary to it. A parallel arises in the case of oral versus mental consent \[in marriage\]: for they say with the mouth but not the mind: “I take you as my own.” It is clear that there is no marriage in such a case, for there is no consent. And in the church.

## iiii. Then what of marriage?

Moreover, a distinction is made in several ways concerning the proper understanding \[of a vow\]. First, thus: one vow is of necessity, another of free will. Of necessity, such as the vow made in baptism under the form “I renounce Satan and all his pomps.” And why is it called necessary? Because it is a mortal sin not to fulfill it, since without it there is no salvation. In the same category is placed the one who vows continence, or a pilgrimage, or religious profession, or abstinence from meat on a certain day. This vow admits dispensation — which is a vow of free will. That \[vow\] which is of necessity, because it has been made necessary in effect, as it says
