---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 80rb
pdf_page: 163
sortable_pagination_id: 163.2
---

\[s\] together. And the same is proved of any other person sinning mortally. And thus no one can sin mortally without committing two mortal sins. Solution: Circumstances that aggravate a sin are to be called separate sins in their own right if they stand independently, but they are an increase of the sin that is common to them \[if they do not stand independently\]. For example: a religious fornicates. Even though he acts against the \[monastic\] rule, and even though he violates the temple of God, and commits sacrilege in this, and even though it is the defloration of a freeborn woman — so that he sins more than if he had known a harlot — nonetheless, in knowing that woman, he commits only one single sin, which is called fornication, and defloration, and sacrilege. And so it is for any sinner, whose sin after baptism is aggravated in this respect — that it contravenes the vow of baptism — and yet, if he never received the character of baptism, and if he does not commit two sins, still the one sin is aggravated by the preceding baptism. From what has been said it is clear that if someone vows continence out of necessity, he vows against the Decalogue and the Gospel, and such a vow is rightfully to be annulled in law. And Jephthah: “Punished in his foolish vows” — if he redeems the same; and in a shameful new \[vow\] altered by decree, the reproof of the vow

### VII.

which he himself repudiated as foolish in his vow — if he erred indeed in fulfilling it — and Josephus says: that he made that vow with this intention — regarding his wife, whom he had found had mingled \[with another\], and as a vowed \[offering\] and as a punishment, or \[illegible\]; and if his wife encountered him, he did it thus: whatever came to meet him, that he would offer to God; if what came to meet him was something that neither could be offered nor could be redeemed under the law, then it is clear that that thing was not to be offered by him, and the vow was indiscreet. But against \[this\] the authority \[says\] that they swore in wickedness and he vowed, calling out and saying that the whole house offered itself and so on. Solution: We say that nonetheless he made the vow against God in wickedness. Hence no vow thus emitted is to be amended — but rather one must repent of sinful \[vows\], as of future vows, and they swore in wickedness
