---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 81vb
pdf_page: 166
sortable_pagination_id: 166.2
---

it is \[also\] determined or varied by the church. And we are bound to render our simple oaths and vows to God, and they pass into necessity after their emission — because unless we render them to God we sin mortally. Yet if in fact we remain \[in the world\] after that \[emission\], we are bound to render \[the debt\] but not to seek it. Another solution, which seems more harmonious, is that every vow made in a mature \[person\] in words of the present tense, and absolutely, confirmed by deliberate resolution of the mind, we ought to render to God — just as any oath made to God. But if afterward in fact someone who vows thus has relations with another, what was first offered to God is sincerely \[owed\] to him first — because God always exacts what was first offered to him. And this is diminished by some \[act of\] consent, namely by carnal union — just as it is not diminished by some other worldly pleasure. This is shown by a parallel: behold, I said that I would give to a secular king that which is most precious among my possessions, and I brought sufficient witnesses. If afterward I change my mind for some supervening cause — without \[doubt\] the king can by right seek what I vowed to him without any condition. But if, on the contrary, the church were through excommunication to compel her to render the debt \[of marriage\] when she has vowed her virginity to God — in that matter she should rather permit herself to be excommunicated. And she will remain under such sentence; nor will the church acquit her through excommunication, because it believes the marriage to be legitimate — except in the eyes of her and her husband. And if such persons in their youth made a vow, whether solemn or simple, and all of this in fact \[was done\]: it must be said that it does not affect the marriage of those contracting it, because those persons made themselves illegitimate for contracting \[marriage\] — since she vowed her virginity the more fully to God. Against this: did not the gloss \[say that\] a virgin vowed her virginity to God, and yet afterward there was a valid marriage between her and Joseph? To this we say that she vowed her virginity to God, as it says in the \[commentary\] on Luke there: “How shall this be, since I have not known a man?” — that is: “I propose not to know \[a man\].” For she
