---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 82rb
pdf_page: 167
sortable_pagination_id: 167.2
---

conferring on him something far better. “My grace is sufficient for you.” Now suppose that Paul vows thus: “I vow to do this, Lord, if you free me from the prison of this death” — and the Lord does not free him from that prison, but confers on him something lesser, namely his grace. I ask whether Paul is bound to do what he vowed, even when the condition has not been fulfilled. \[The answer is\] yes, all the more so since God conferred on him something far greater. For if he is bound to keep the vow when a small thing was asked and granted, he is a hundredfold more bound to do the same \[when God confers something greater\]. This can also be shown in another case: if someone vows thus — “Lord, because you have returned my son safely from his pilgrimage, I will fast for ten years” — and that son, by God’s disposal, suffers martyrdom, it is clear that his father, by reason of this greater benefit conferred by God, is all the more bound to fulfill the vow. The holy \[Fathers\] \[illegible\] say that in such cases, even when the condition is imposed, the vow must be fulfilled absolutely — just as in the forms of the sacraments, appended conditions do not change the substance of the sacraments; as when someone says, “Baptize in the name of

### On the conditional vow.

the Father and the Son” — this person was baptized, and such a condition changes nothing; indeed, he was baptized absolutely. There is also this objection and its resolution about the person who, while entangled with sinful prostitutes and fearing he might succumb, vows in this form: “I vow to become a monk, if God frees me from the snares of this harlot.” Even if he falls into her embrace, he is nonetheless bound to enter a monastery — for God perhaps permitted this so that he might rise with greater fortitude and humility. This is like the story of a certain most noble young nun who was moved, while in the cloister, to weep over a companion servant who had fallen in the flesh; and the Lord permitted her to leave the cloister and to fall into certain acts of fornication, so that she might rise again all the more humbly. And so it came to pass. Likewise, a conditional vow must always be fulfilled, even
