---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 83ra
pdf_page: 169
sortable_pagination_id: 169.1
---

under a condition, with a prior consent of the present and a subsequent carnal union, and those that are contracted in a prior conditional or future consent — thus, that betrothals of the first kind hold whether or not the condition is fulfilled, as that chapter states. When someone betrothed another “under the name of a condition” and then wished to abandon her, we say that the condition is broken and the betrothal holds irrefragably. Those contracted in the second manner, however, do not hold unless the condition is fulfilled, as the same chapter states.

### vi. There follows the question of the redemption and commutation of vows.

It is established that vows can be redeemed or commuted by dispensation once a sufficient cause is known. For example, someone vows to give large alms but is reduced to extreme poverty. Or someone vows a pilgrimage, but afterwards is gouty, leprous, or so infirm that he cannot travel. It is established that such a vow admits of dispensation according to the judgment of the presiding authority, as Alexander asserts under that title on vows and the redemption of vows, in the chapter “De peregrinatione.” As to whether vows can be redeemed by almsgiving or by other means, we respond: for this, each person should carefully consider, by the judgment of the penitent, the standing of the person and, in the matter of commutation, whether the pilgrimage or the compensation would be the greater benefit — and the dispensation should be granted accordingly. A prelate considering whether someone is unwilling to go on pilgrimage should attend to whether the benefit of that person’s pilgrimage ought to accrue to the Church or whether he is capable of completing it. If the prelate knows the person’s pilgrimage to be useless or the person unable to complete it, he may dispense with him by changing the vow to another work, as Alexander instructs in that chapter “Pervenienti,” under the same title. And so that you may more fully understand that same title on vows, the redemption of vows, and the commutation of vows — since in the old institutions of sacristans
