---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 84va
pdf_page: 172
sortable_pagination_id: 172.1
---

performed \[the action\] in the correct baptismal form, and if the recipient is subsequently confirmed in it, it is established that he was baptized — however minimally he remained — even while \[the minister\] was still present. The same applies to orders and to confirmation. For in those sacraments, the consent of the recipient is not required in order for them to be conferred or given.

## iii. On penalties and counsels.

Furthermore, the Apostle forbids a bigamist or a neophyte \[from being ordained\], and the Lord Pope may not dispense to the contrary — because it would be contrary to the Apostle and against his decrees, and even what is permitted to him concerning dispensation in the case of a bigamist or a neophyte. All the more \[is it permitted\] to dispense with someone in the matter of offering a candle in holy orders while still keeping his wife. Furthermore, consider a young man greatly oppressed by the goads of the flesh and fearing he may fall into fornication, who petitions the Lord Pope to dispense in his case — the Pope should rather grant him marriage than \[deny it to\] those of forty or a hundred years old who have already fallen and lapsed in the flesh, as clearly happens in numerous cases, and who have already had several wives. And there are many deacons and subdeacons in the Gallican Church and in distant kingdoms

who have obtained from the Lord Pope an indulgence to practice continence; and just as dispensation is made for them, he can dispense in similar cases. Resolution: Because at a general council, through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, the holy Fathers established, and the Lord Pope confirmed, that no one constituted in holy orders should make use of \[the conjugal act\], such a general constitution cannot be revoked by the Lord Pope or by any man in secret, unless by the same authority of the Holy Spirit, and with a general council convened, and with a necessary cause and the utility of the Church known. In the case of a neophyte or bigamist, no dispensation from the Lord Pope will ever be found; and if it is said that it is lawful to do this in God’s name, we say this would be acting against the Apostle. Because through the inspiration that often forewarns the Pope, once a proper and sufficient cause is known, \[the Pope\] often derogates by special dispensation from the gen-
