---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 85ra
pdf_page: 173
sortable_pagination_id: 173.1
---

figures of the \[Old Testament\] sacrificial rites; all the less, then, is it permitted to the Lord Pope, who holds the place of Moses, to dispense against that commandment concerning those who deal not in figures but in realities — indeed the very things that were prefigured. And according to that old commandment, neither the hunchback — that is, one oppressed by a great weight of pride — nor the blind — that is, one who enters without knowing — nor one suffering from chronic scab — that is, a continuous itch of lust — nor anyone else prefigured under that old commandment should be admitted. As to whether the Supreme Pontiff ought to or can dispense with someone so that he may be taken into the ministry of God — if someone is infected with such a blemish, we concede \[that he should not be admitted\] when such a crime is notorious, or legally proved, or acknowledged by a special confession made in court. He can, however, dispense with such a person once the cause is known, if no scandal results from the dispensation, or if there is a common benefit — provided, however, this is not done in admitting \[such persons\] to holy orders except at a convened general council.

### Furthermore, Moses erected a serpent on a pole, and the children of Israel, looking upon it, were all healed from the bites of serpents. But afterwards certain persons, worshipping it, became sacrilegious idolaters.

And it no longer availed them for salvation at all, but proved to be their condemnation. Therefore, the serpent was removed from the pole and ground to powder. By the same reasoning, the vow of continence for those in orders, which has now turned to their confusion, must be revoked. For although at first it was useful for clerics in holy orders to observe continence, by now it has become useless and harmful for those who cannot maintain it — because from this prohibition all manner of abominations against nature arise; and while the Lord is away, the Devil coils up his sons and grandsons, which gives rise to nearly infinite acts of simony. Resolution: It seems to us, as the Cantor is accustomed to assert, that a general council must be convened to restore the state of the primitive Church, according to which
