---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 85rb
pdf_page: 173
sortable_pagination_id: 173.2
---

fewer abuses and fewer evils will occur. For the \[ancient Romans\] so extinguished their breasts that they shed blood to appease Jupiter.

## There follows the question of the vows of religious. Chapter xiv. On the vows of religious. i.

There are many who enter religious life while under age, and put on the habit immediately, and are repentant of it. The question is whether such a vow holds, as Alexander says under the title concerning religious persons and those entering religious life, in that decretal “Ad nos” and in that decretal “Signatum est.” \[The objection is\]: as in the Dialogue of Gregorius, he condemns a boy for blasphemy, and therefore black demons came, that is Ethiopians, and carried him off; and that boy under thirteen years of age was capable of discretion at the age of reason — and thus that vow holds. For if he contracts matrimony consenting to it and to carnal union, the marriage holds; all the more must the spiritual marriage that he contracts when he voluntarily enters the cloister hold in law. And if the habit is assumed before the fifteenth year, not under compulsion or enticement but of his own free will, he cannot be absolved from such a solemn vow. And hence is contradicted that decretal which asserts the contrary, saying: “If anyone who has gone to religious life has begun to be fourteen years old, and if he entered before the age of fourteen, should he repent of his vow and wish to remain in the world, he can be absolved from that vow of profession by pontifical authority — whether he was perhaps oblated, whether he has already reached full age when they entered the religious life, whether he has made his profession after the thirteenth year — you shall compel him with all charity to enter that or another religious order.” Resolution: Alexander in the said constitutions speaks of those who are under age, who assumed the habit either out of fear, or in a spirit of election, or induced by childish facility. But I believe that Alexander would have judged differently in the case of one who, at less than thirteen
