---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 85va
pdf_page: 174
sortable_pagination_id: 174.1
---

years of age, was found to possess mature discretion; and one who is of far more mature age, in that very puberty — indeed even \[among those\] capable of deceit — just as \[a marriage\] contracted in matrimony holds by reason of consent given afterwards, so also a \[monastic\] vow holds by reason of subsequent consent.

## ii. Furthermore, \[the question concerns\] one who entered a cloister over the wife’s objection and was compelled to return to his wife even if he had been tonsured.

As the chapter “Agathosa” has it, xxvii q. ii, and that decretal “i. dam initiurt,” under the title on the conjugal life of married persons. What is to be said of the person who entered a cloister over his wife’s objection and was subsequently returned to his wife, and after her death took another wife? The question is whether this second marriage, contracted after the vow by which he vowed himself to religious life, is valid with respect to the wife, and whether he could \[be released from the obligation\] toward the wife. It seems the marriage is not valid — because he made himself ineligible for contracting, since when he vowed himself to a religious order, he bound himself to \[a manner of life in which\] he would seek the \[conjugal\] debt, but he did not bind himself to knowing anyone carnally. And Alexander says that the latter cannot take a wife.

And if the second marriage contracted by him does not hold — for he had solemnly promised that he would, if released, be in his own power — and such a vow was solemnized through the assumption of the habit, which impedes only the contracting of matrimony but does not dissolve a marriage already contracted; and the vow so promised impedes this marriage. Alexander says that by reason of the preceding vow he is bound to return to the monastery, and that he solemnized it through the assumption of the habit, and that by the authority of the Church and of canon law what was placed upon him no longer remains in him as a solemn vow or its effect, and no solemn vow in him impedes the contracted marriage; and thus a simple vow does not impede \[a contracted\] marriage, even though it impedes the contracting \[of one\]. And this
