---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 86vb
pdf_page: 176
sortable_pagination_id: 176.2
---

the order is incompatible \[with his condition\] or otherwise difficult for him to return to the world unanointed, and he is bound to that order which he fully professed by vow. And as they say, in no way is he permitted to withdraw on account of the prior vow. Let what has been said about vows suffice.

## On Scandal. After what has been set forth, we must add something on scandal — that is, on scandal.

We must consider what scandal is and whence it is named; what it means to scandalize one’s neighbor; whether every sin of scandal is mortal; in which cases scandal is to be avoided and in which it is not to be feared; and \[we must treat\] scandal together with other enumerated matters. Scandal is a word, deed, or sign by the occasion of which someone is led to consent to mortal sin. It is called *scandalum* from the Greek *skandalon*, which in Latin means *offensio* \[offense\]. To scandalize one’s neighbor is to offend one’s neighbor by provoking him to consent to mortal sin by occasion of a word, deed, or some such sign or action.

## ii. Whether all scandal is mortal sin — several authorities seem to assert this, as that text of the Gospel: “Woe to him through whom scandal comes; it would be better for him to have a millstone hung about his neck

and to be cast into the depths of the sea” — because this assigns the punishment of mortal sin, \[it follows that\] scandal is a mortal sin. To the same effect is that authority: “It is better to die of hunger than to eat food sacrificed to idols with scandal to one’s brother.” Likewise: “Woe to the world because of scandals.” Likewise the Apostle says: “If my food scandalizes my brother, I will never eat meat.” Likewise it is said in the Psalm: “Scandal is placed beside you, and for me who am in thee — if I do not diminish \[it\].” On the other hand, it seems that

## iii. there could be found a scandal that is not a mortal sin.

As it is said in the Gospel: “Get behind me, Satan; you are a scandal to me” — this was said to Peter. Likewise, it is commonly said of a priest who keeps a concubine that he is a scandal to his whole parish; and yet it appears that this is something other than a sin —
