---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 87va
pdf_page: 178
sortable_pagination_id: 178.1
---

when he said to Peter: “Go to the sea and you will find \[a coin\] in the mouth of a fish; pay it for me and for you.” It is established that he and his disciples were free \[from this tax\]. “We are sons of the kingdom, \[free\] from tribute,” he said. And yet he paid the tribute which he did not owe; and a lesser prelate ought to pay tribute by the example of the Lord — and so he ought to pay it. Objection: if he pays it, he will scandalize the Church and the prince who unjustly imposed it; and if he ought to pay it \[too\] —. Solution: there is a difference between the case where the tribute is levied for another purpose and the case where that place in which you are lord is subject to paying it; and if he has chosen to pay it, for —

### vii. Likewise, some poor man coming from distant parts appears before you to hear sentence, acting on behalf of indigenous people of the community, who will immediately become infected if they continually hear one another’s judgments. I ask whether the prelate ought to defer sentence for the benefit of the poor man, since he has already reached the point of the final determination of the case, which is complex.

For if you render many judgments and bring many deaths — if you put off the poor man — and you share his guilt. Solution: We say that you ought by no means to accept any reward in judgment and abandon the unity of life in this peril of death; but you ought nonetheless to pronounce sentence. You can pronounce a safe sentence if you are able, as John the Baptist did — when in his distant place he spoke the truth under the shadow of death, saying: “It is not lawful for you to have your brother’s wife.” Likewise: “It is better to die of hunger —”

### viii. Likewise, it is better to die of hunger

than to eat food sacrificed to idols with scandal to one’s brother. In the case of a man facing starvation in a comparison: your soul prizes what you love more and what it impresses upon you. You are dying of hunger; you cannot eat unless it be \[food sacrificed to idols\]. This person has spent and expended something upon an idol. If you eat, your soul \[is defiled\]; if you do not eat, your body \[suffers\]. If you do not eat, you cause \[his death\]. If you omit eating, you infect yourself. And it is not lawful to infect oneself, whether by acting or by omission. Furthermore, you are bound in extremity to others as if you were the heir to them; it is lawful to scandalize others — indeed, even more so —
