---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 88ra
pdf_page: 179
sortable_pagination_id: 179.1
---

because he knows that Christ is raised in him and does not receive him, and yet he knows that Christ is God; whereas if he believed him to be a mere man he would not know this. But if he does not celebrate, he scandalizes those who are present, and by offending others he slays them likewise, and he sins more gravely by not celebrating than by celebrating. Solution: We say that the Lord preferred him to celebrate rather than, by not celebrating, to be monstrous in wickedness; and therefore the lesser evil is to be chosen. Likewise Hieronymus \[says\]: it is better to expose the Church’s treasury to usury than to let the poor man drown; and it is lawful to receive a loan not at usury. Objection: when he receives at usury, the one who receives the loan, being scandalized in the sense of the petition in this way, is scandalized by you — because were it not for you in this matter, he would not be sinning; for you are the cause of his sin, just as the listener to detraction is the cause of the petition of the one who disparages \[another\]. And whether a listener and a disparager both give \[occasion\] — the solution of this question is to be sought from the beginning in the treatise on usury. Likewise —

## xii. Someone has sworn to give a prebend either to this person or to that; and he fears that if he gives the prebend to this one, the other will be scandalized; and if he gives it to the other one, the first will be scandalized. What is he to do in this situation?

It is established that the determination is bound to praise either this one or that one, and he is able to give to one rather than the other, even if the other is scandalized.

And he is bound to this, even though the other is thereby scandalized. Solution: In such oaths, words, or promises concerning the future, it must always be understood as we have said, with a pious implied condition, in this form: “I intend that I will give the prebend to this person or that one, in so far as it will be expedient for the Church.” And if you are bound by oath or vow to give to this one specifically, you are bound to give to the other with fidelity, even if the latter is scandalized — the better \[choice\]. And if in this matter the votes in some chapter are divided into two parts, and the prebend has been assigned to a bishop, he ought to seek it in the name of the bishop, even if the other party is scandalized, if there is \[clear\] precedent. And where there is neither precedent nor a vow nor an oath binding him to give the prebend in this manner to this person or that one —

## xiii. or to assign a bishop in a fixed scandal. Likewise —
