---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 88rb
pdf_page: 179
sortable_pagination_id: 179.2
---

these two \[candidates\], whom you believe to be placed in extreme need — with many \[supporters\] on each side, some believing one of them to be a pretender and a tyrant, and believing the other to be good; while others on the opposite side believe that \[first\] one to be good, a tyrant, and the remaining one, whom they consider bad, to be a worthy man of patrimony — it is established that you are bound to give to one of them, because you are bound to follow your conscience, and judgment is to be rendered to this \[candidate\]. Suppose you have only one sufficient \[benefice\], and the case stands thus: you are bound to give to one of them, and if you give to the one, you scandalize the other; and you are bound to scandalize the other, and you are bound to sin. Solution: This argument has multiple parts: if you give to this one, you scandalize all the rest. For if the case stands thus, this statement is false as phrased. If \[a condition\] is added, then it is true; and that argumentation does not hold good. From which it appears that, following that rule — that if something \[leads\] to another and the worse \[condition leads\] back to the antecedent, the better \[leads\] to the consequent — and yet if the argument proceeds according to that rule, since the statement is true, it entails no logical consequence by obligation. Likewise, suppose you do not believe these two are in extreme need, but in great \[need\]; and you know that if you give to one of them, many will be greatly scandalized. What will you do —

and you will give to that one of them \[who deserves it\]. Will not the other say “He has found his brother in need and shut up his mercy from him; how can the love of God dwell in him?” We say no — and it is purely right to give in this situation, where you ought to keep your hand from the scandal of the other, in accordance with: “Give alms, and all things are clean for you”; and “It is more blessed to give than to receive.” Objection: Hieronymus says: every \[good\] that can, if it be without harm to salvation, be left undone for the sake of charity of salvation — is to be omitted on account of scandal. And this giving to that one is such a good — and it is to be omitted on account of scandal. This we grant, if the scandal is a mortal scandal; but if the scandal is venial, this good is to be done; but if he is in extreme need, then —
