---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 88va
pdf_page: 180
sortable_pagination_id: 180.1
---

if I omit \[giving\] because of some scandal rather than giving to others, or to both if it could be done. Likewise, when you encounter a robber on the road and are in such peril, will you allow yourself to be killed by the robber, or will you kill him? It is established that you are incomparably more bound to love his soul than your own flesh. And you know that simoniacs impose harm that will be a cause of infection in body and soul. And you see that you ought rather to despise your land than to kill that enemy of yours.

### \[heading\]

All laws and all rights repel the sinful woman \[*peccatrix*\]. And by law it is lawful, in defense of one’s own body, to scandalize and kill him, in accordance with: “Do not allow the wicked to go unpunished.” Solution: Either you are perfect or you are imperfect. If you are perfect, in the aforementioned case by the example of authority and the duty of religion you ought rather to expose yourself to death than to kill the other person, in accordance with: “If someone strikes you on the cheek, offer him the other also.” But if you are imperfect, it is lawful to repel the injury inflicted on you and to defend yourself against the robber in defense of your body. There we inquired about that authority of the Apostle: “All things are lawful for me, but not all things are expedient.” That authority speaks to three cases. The first case is the eating of food sacrificed to idols. The second is the reclaiming of what was taken. The third is the acceptance of support from subjects. In these cases the Apostle says: “All things are lawful for me, but not all things are expedient” — that is, to eat food sacrificed to idols, to reclaim my rightful goods, to accept support from subjects in my preaching; and whatever things are lawful are without sin, and whatever things are without sin, not only are they inexpedient if they are inexpedient — to be expedient is incumbent upon that which generates scandal, because to generate mortal sin is expedient if it generates or produces mortal sin. If things are lawful, they are also permissible \[*licent*\]; and if a lawful thing is expedient, thus it is permissible — so that what the Apostle says must be understood: “All things are lawful for me and all things are expedient.” Is it not \[illegible\] that you have wherefore \[illegible\] at the hour when it is lawful is expedient? For if you say that lawful things are inexpedient, whatever things are expedient —
