---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 89ra
pdf_page: 181
sortable_pagination_id: 181.1
---

is offered like an idol beside the ark — will you eat of these things, and that with the scandal of many and under the pretext of your conscience? Or will you pretend to eat and not eat them? And if your prelate commands you to eat from those dishes, will you contradict him?

## Likewise, on the second case

the objection is made as follows: you have the power to reclaim \[your goods\] from one under judgment without scandalizing your adversaries, and such reclamation is within your power, and it can be done while preserving the threefold justice; and it is to be omitted on account of scandal, in accordance with: “If someone wishes to contend with you in court and take your tunic, give him your cloak also.” Hence the Apostle says: “A servant of God ought not to litigate.” And elsewhere: “Do you not know that when you have judgments to settle you place people of little account in the Church as judges?” — because if you are spiritual \[souls\], \[that is,\] you are cast down prone toward litigation of this kind, some who wished to drag him into \[such\] controversies answered: “Who made me a judge over you?” Likewise, consider a prelate or abbot who sees the goods of the church being squandered: ought he to let the temporal goods be squandered, or should he reclaim them through litigation? And you know that if he litigates he will scandalize many, and he will become entangled in worldly affairs from which he cannot easily extricate himself. What will he do? Will he allow the goods of the poor to be squandered on account of scandal, or will he reclaim them through litigation, and entangle himself in the snares, and be implicated — whether he preaches the life of his enemy or not — in accordance with that verse in the Canticle: “I have washed my feet; how shall I defile them? I have taken off my tunic; how shall I put it on?” Hence the Apostle says: “Why do you not rather suffer injury?” Likewise, authority says: you ought not to help one person so as to harm another unjustly, if you can assist him; for no one ought to be enriched through another’s loss. And if you are an advocate, you ought not to assist one person to the scandal and harm of the other, because you know that you cannot defend one party without scandalizing the other; and you ought rather to cease from advocacy than to scandalize many, because without your advocacy the threefold justice is safe.

## Objection.

You say your party’s case is just, and you enter the matter unwisely and for a price. And it is better that scandal —
