---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 89rb
pdf_page: 181
sortable_pagination_id: 181.2
---

than that you abandon your just cause. Likewise, on the third case of the Apostle the objection is made as follows: Consider a certain preacher in this matter — dogs, pigs, and heretics are mixed in with the others to whom he preaches, who stir up the worst scandal and the worst example of cupidity if he accepts anything from his subjects. What shall he do when he is in extreme need and has nothing elsewhere from which to live, and it is set before him either to keep silent and die of hunger than \[to eat\] food sacrificed to idols or to receive anything with scandal; and he ought rather to expose himself to death than to scandalize his subjects by means of his food, in accordance with that word of the Apostle: “It is more expedient for me to die than that anyone should make void my glory” — that is, concerning what I receive from my subjects. Solution: We say in reply to the first case that there is a twofold situation to be assigned for understanding that authority of the Apostle “All things are lawful,” etc. For it can happen that it is both lawful and expedient to eat food sacrificed to idols — that is, if there is no one present who sees you eat it and no one is scandalized by your eating. And \[it can happen that it is both lawful and expedient\] to reclaim your goods when you are imperfect, and to be sustained from the Gospel — if there are no prebends, if the subjects are devoted to supporting you. Likewise, it can happen that it is both lawful and expedient to eat food sacrificed to idols, or to reclaim your goods through litigation, and to be sustained from the Gospel — because you are at table with the weak, the newly baptized, and the recent converts in the faith, who believe and render veneration to the idol, and you eat from the food sacrificed to idols in their presence; and there it is not lawful to eat, \[and\] if it is not expedient in the first case because it generates the occasion and scandal. Likewise, if you, along with Paul and the other apostles who greeted no one on the road out of devotion to the haste of preaching the Gospel, have taken upon yourself the bond of perfection — although it might be lawful for you to reclaim your goods through litigation — yet because greater fruit is obtained from the gain of souls by preaching the Gospel, this is not expedient, because it withdraws you from a greater good, in accordance with: “Let the dead bury their own dead” — because you leave aside the lesser good in taking up that greater good.
