---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 90va
pdf_page: 184
sortable_pagination_id: 184.1
---

### The fourth case.

Again, a trustee-abbot received an immense sum of money on deposit; he must restore it. But it turns out that the depositor is a heretic who is plotting to use the money to overthrow the Church. Here is a perplexity: for if the abbot restores it, he places a sword in the hands of a madman; yet if he does not restore it, this is a breach of his oath. Again, suppose someone has had relations with the sister of his wife, or has had intercourse with a woman related to him in the second or third degree of affinity. If he renders the conjugal debt he sins; if he refuses to render it, he is excommunicated by the Church and is compelled to render it. Again, if an archdeacon who openly keeps a concubine celebrates on a solemn feast-day in a cathedral church, and a deacon is called upon to assist him in executing the office, and \[the deacon\] knows without doubt that \[the archdeacon\] keeps a concubine, then by ministering as deacon he hears the Mass to its end, acting contrary to the canon that forbids this; if he withdraws, resuming the vestments proper to \[ordinary\] duty, he scandalizes not only the bishop and the dean who overlook the archdeacon’s crime — perhaps because they themselves are of that sort — but the entire congregation present. What are you to do? Now suppose that the same priest is so ensnared that he has reached the words “This is my body,” “This is the chalice of the new covenant,” and he is unwilling to desist from that concubine or to go back. If he proceeds, he must himself receive the body and blood of the Lord; but according to the general instruction of the Church, no one may celebrate without communicating; yet if he communicates he eats and drinks judgment upon himself and does what amounts to killing Christ, as Ambrosius says. If he refuses to proceed, he scandalizes everyone. Solution. No one is in a genuine perplexity of law in these matters; for if someone incurs such perplexities, let him do what he can in each situation, always preserving charity and ever choosing the lesser inconvenience. Hence one in a cloister who realizes that he cannot save himself there
