---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 90vb
pdf_page: 184
sortable_pagination_id: 184.2
---

ought rather to leave, and should prefer to be excommunicated than to consent to the sins of those cloister-dwellers; he should betake himself rather to another cloister or to a hermitage. Regarding the abbot who received the deposit, we say that he ought not to restore it to its owner if the owner intends to apply it to the subversion of the Church in support of heretics — just as Augustinus testifies, one ought not restore a sword to a madman, even though you swore to return it to the one who asks, if you understood that the madman intended to use the sword to harm \[others\]; likewise if the abbot understood that the heretic would use the money \[for harm\]. If \[the abbot\] swore he would return it to him whether he was a heretic or not, that must not be counted as an oath, and he should not repent of having broken such an oath; and if he restored the money on account of it, let him take care to withdraw from \[the heretic’s\] hand and reclaim it, or \[make restitution by restoring\] the money to the heretic’s heirs, or retain it until the man returns to the unity of the faith, or dispose of it as the Church shall direct. Regarding one who has known the sister of his wife, we say that he shall neither demand nor render the conjugal debt, and shall first endure excommunication rather than render it, and shall keep his wife who is his kinswoman. Regarding the deacon assisting at the altar with the concubinary priest, we say that if he is so certain that the priest keeps a concubine that he could conceal it from no one even if he wished, he ought rather to withdraw than to minister. But if he doubts whether \[the priest\] keeps that woman, and this is known only to a few, and if \[the priest\] has been neither confessed nor convicted in law on this point, he should not withdraw. Regarding the priest who in the middle of the canon is unwilling to repent, some say that he ought to consume a plain unconsecrated host rather than a consecrated one. This is said because he ought to weigh the canon against the attendant scandal. But before consecration he ought rather to abandon the ministry than to confer the body of Christ, since to receive it unworthily is to kill Christ. If, however, consecration has already been performed, then in our judgment he can in no way
