---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 91ra
pdf_page: 185
sortable_pagination_id: 185.1
---

refrain from consuming the consecrated elements, both on account of the Church’s general admonition and to avoid the most pernicious scandal. Again, in the third case it happened that a certain man contracted \[betrothal\] with a woman, and after his death \[another man\] pledged faith to contract \[marriage\] with her, and after those betrothals were contracted he had carnal knowledge of her, and afterwards he was dismissed by her \[after she contracted\] with another; and she likewise contracted with yet another. They consider themselves in a perplexity and ask whether they are in the state of the saved. It seems not. For as the canon says: if after betrothals a person has carnal intercourse with another person, and through that carnal union the previously contracted marriage is consummated, and when such a marriage has been ratified and consummated, the marriage subsequently contracted with others must be dissolved, and that first marriage remains ratified and unshaken, and the adulterous cohabitation with the others must be set aside. What is she to do? If she leaves the third husband she will be excommunicated by the Church. What are we to say of either case? If incidentally she had intercourse with the third husband in a purely conjugal spirit — for that constitutes the supreme evil here — what if she had intercourse with him not as a wife but as a kept woman, and he did not know her in a conjugal spirit but in a whorish one? What shall we say? It does not seem that there was here consent to matrimony, since neither knew the other in a conjugal spirit, and thus no marriage is consummated in the proper sense. Solution. If after the betrothals they have intercourse in what is effectively the union of matrimony before God — that is, in a conjugal spirit and in the bond of the betrothals, because they consented to each other in this way, intending to contract then — then the marriage was consummated by such carnal union. And this is the case addressed by the aforesaid canon. In the first case, the aforesaid wife is permitted to remain with the third husband; in the second case, she is permitted to remain with the first husband; and in either case she is in the state of the saved. And if the Church excommunicates her unjustly, she should rather endure excommunication. She was known by the very one with whom the betrothal had been first established in a purely carnal and whorish spirit rather than a conjugal one, since only the consent of souls makes matrimo\-
