---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 91rb
pdf_page: 185
sortable_pagination_id: 185.2
---

ny and the remedy of penance, rather than cohabiting with an adulterer. Again, in a third case it happened that a certain priest publicly excommunicated his brother, who was interfering in the goods of a church, because he refused to heed any admonition to make peace. The brother, being hotheaded, drew his sword and rushed at the priest with intent to kill him. In defense of his own person, the priest struck his pursuing brother fatally on the head with a small thrown stone, so that the brother died of the wound on the eleventh day. The lord Pope was consulted about this and delegated judges constructed by him, who in turn consulted legal experts as to what penalty should be imposed on the priest for that homicide; who, according to the surface of the laws and canons, judged that he should be deposed from every sacred order and from the exercise of orders. To the contrary: do not the laws and all oaths repel \[guilt in this case\]? And for the severity of the penalty \[consider\]: for an act committed solely in defense of one’s person, and also of the Church, and that not from malice but rather from the intention of repelling \[an attacker\] — for who would believe that a priest wished to kill his brother, or to threaten him with death by so small a stone? Moreover, in the imposition of a penalty, it is rather the disposition that must be weighed, as is evident in the case of one who is purging a legal action: if he applies all the diligence he can and fails, it must be imputed to the one who forced his way in rashly. What will you do in imposing a penalty on this priest? If you attend too closely to severity you will either release him without punishment or punish him lightly; and if you add too much error you will drive him into the path of bloodshed by deposing him. It seems to us, without prejudice, that if the aforesaid facts are established he should be punished by suspension from the exercise of orders, yet he should not for this be deprived of his clerical status, nor stripped of his order, nor suspended from his benefice — but rather should be punished by some other suitable penalty, lest he scandalize the people by the enormity of the deed. Nevertheless the lord Pope has the power to restrict the severity of the penalty with regard to the exercise of orders and to readmit him
