---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 92va
pdf_page: 188
sortable_pagination_id: 188.1
---

through his territory; \[Sihon\] refused on condition \[that passage be granted\], was fought and conquered, and his city and land were lawfully seized. But \[Moses\] was unwilling to go against the king of Edom, who denied transit unjustly, and refused to make war on him. Hence on that passage Augustinus says: “It should be noted that just wars are waged. For passage was denied to those who harmed no one — passage which was owed by the law of human fellowship. And in order that God might fulfill his promises, he aided the Israelites, to whom the Amorites were denying passage. If Edom justly denied transit, \[the Israelites\] did not attack. Because that land was to be entered by the Israelites, \[God\] so ordained and promised to give them the land — because it belonged to them either by inheritance or by divine ordination. But against Edom the war was unjust, and therefore the unjust denial \[of passage\] was nevertheless declined \[as a casus belli\].” Regarding the aforesaid legate, we say that he ought rather to attend to the general intent of the Pope in his legation, applying it sufficiently; he should also consider the cause from which that mandate issued, and then take into account the contrary matters that later arose, the knowledge of which would have entirely changed the intention of the lord Pope; and he should defer the sentence for the time being until a new mandate issues concerning the new development. Again, in the third case it happened that two judges delegate had been constituted by the lord Pope, and a letter was already drawn up for them; they excommunicated the defendant as one unwilling to appear and contumacious. After this one of them died. When the contumacious party sought absolution, the surviving judge, seeing himself alone, asks whether he alone may lawfully absolve him; for if he alone can excommunicate — which he can, since nothing in the commission concerning binding or loosing prevents it — and if the defendant were sufficiently penitent and ready to make satisfaction, who will absolve him? Is so great a penalty to be imposed upon him that on account of that small offen\-
