---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 92vb
pdf_page: 188
sortable_pagination_id: 188.2
---

he must be sent to the Supreme Pontiff? Solution. The canon resolves this as follows, namely that a new decretal is needed, to the effect that whenever one of the delegate judges is dead or too long absent — that is, on a lengthy journey — the sole survivor suffices for the absolution of one thus excommunicated just as well as both together. Again, much doubt has been expressed among the cardinals in the curia about this third case. A certain man, having a wife, secretly dismissed her and took another woman; he was later compelled by the Church to return to the first. After that he publicly declared in the face of the Church that consanguinity had been proved to exist between them. He pledges faith to take a third woman. The second wife reclaims him, saying that she is now steadfastly \[bound to him\], asserting that the marriage between him and the first wife has been dissolved, and also alleging that no divorce between them was celebrated by the Church on grounds of consanguinity or affinity sufficient \[to dissolve a valid marriage\], and that therefore the first marriage is dissolved, so that it is proved that he ought rather to be hers than to be anyone else’s husband; for both by the first and by the second he has been separated through ecclesiastical censure, and so far as the Church is concerned he has been freed from both — that is, from both the first and the second — and has pledged faith before the Church to take a third woman; she \[the third\] ought to receive what is against herself if this was done legitimately. Solution. Either the Church is sufficiently established by witnesses beyond all exception that the first marriage cannot stand for adequate grounds of divorce that are plainly sufficient \[to warrant it\], or if the Church is sufficiently established on this: if it were established to them that the first marriage can stand neither by dispensation nor otherwise, then the second marriage contracted would be legitimate, and then the marriage \[with the third\] is to be contracted, and then he will have this woman; and though he has no wife now, in this case the second wife’s \[claim\] should be upheld. But if the Church is not fully satisfied that the divorce in the first marriage was celebrated on sufficient grounds, or if they find that \[the parties to the first marriage\] were related in a dispensable degree of consan\-
