---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 93ra
pdf_page: 189
sortable_pagination_id: 189.1
---

guinity, then the Church ought rather to counsel him to seek a dispensation and remain with the first wife than to proceed under such doubt either to the second or to the third. But if the witnesses are insufficient and they are in an indispensable degree \[of consanguinity\], then the Church should pronounce divorce from the first marriage until the legal situation becomes clearer. Again, a knight by means of false witnesses alleging consanguinity repudiated his lawful wife before the face of the Church and took another, from whom the same things came about; and finally, brought to repentance, he asks what he is to do, since he cannot carry on as things stand and would wish, if it were open to him before the Church, to return to the \[first\] repudiated wife. He asks whether it is the lesser evil to keep a concubine, to follow vagrant lust, or to take another woman in the face of the Church, given that the bond of matrimony with his lawful living wife subsists. If you say that you advise any one of these — since each is an evil — you answer badly, for the theologian knows not only good and evil but also how to distinguish among evils, what is evil, what is worse, and what is worst. It appears that it is more dangerous to follow vagrant lust, for perhaps your brother or equal is intimate with some woman who is either a nun or is married. Again, if you attach yourself superficially to another woman, deceiving the Church, then once you have taken her you can never leave her; you will always be held to be in adultery or you will be excommunicated. From a concubine you may withdraw as often as you wish, once you have first reached agreement with the Church. Again, that you ought rather to remain with a concubine remotely, since in secret you could have access to the repudiated wife, knowing her to be his lawful wife, and she privately requests the \[conjugal\] debt, whether he should render it to her without scandal — and whether he sins against her in rendering it. It is established that if he maintains the second marriage, that upholds the first before God. It also appears that if she makes that request secretly and those unaware of the first marriage, \[he may comply\]. Solution. It seems to us that the knight ought to labor to be reconciled with that first wife whom he knows to be his lawful wife, so that just as he sinned equally against her, as Augustinus says about the penance of
