---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 93rb
pdf_page: 189
sortable_pagination_id: 189.2
---

heretics: for he who ought to repent should at the very least be shown mercy — as one who sowed heresy among them; therefore, against damnation, let him preach the word of salvation in order to call back the first \[wife\] within limits. Again, if I were to commend him either to follow vagrant lust or to cohabit with some woman, still the lesser evil in such a case is to follow lust than to bind himself to a wife from whom he could easily be separated. To the second point we say that he can meet with his first wife in secret and without scandal, and it is not wrong \[for her\] to request \[the debt\]. Again, in the third case it happened that a certain man had married a young woman and had cohabited with her for many years and had children by her; when one day he was asked \[by the priest\] about the origin of those children — pressed \[for an answer\], he was penitent, and asked what their names were, what their appearance was, and what their features. His answer, fully recalled, was that he and all his people \[had been\] sent away entirely and thoroughly dismissed with a message — by which means he had helped both himself and his \[family\]. He immediately leapt from his bed and revealed all this in confession. The priest made him swear to confess something; she denied everything and wished to continue cohabiting with him. The question is what \[the priest\] should do. It is established that he shall neither render nor exact \[the conjugal debt\], for no one can dispense in a case prohibited by the Lord. To the contrary: the Church will excommunicate him. For if it is established that \[the impediment\] came out in confession and if \[the fact\] can be proved, he will be cast out of the Church and from the reception of all the sacraments; and at the end communion will be denied him. He must never cohabit with her or render or exact \[the debt\], even if the whole Church were to rise up against him for it. Solution. Thus perplexed, let him never exact or render \[the debt\], even though the Church denies him all the sacraments and excommunicates him. But if he should touch her, let him be free to repent of it.

## Another case also

moves me more. A certain layman confessed in the parish of a certain priest and for a long time lay hidden there under a secular guise; who later in confession revealed to the same
