---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 93va
pdf_page: 190
sortable_pagination_id: 190.1
---

priest that he had been a member of a religious order. Afterwards, some time having passed, he asked that a wife be given him by that same priest; \[the priest\] had learned of the impediment to marriage through the seal of confession. The question is what \[the priest\] should do. It seems he ought to give him a wife, \[for there is\] nothing he can object against him that would impede the contracting of marriage, since whatever he knows against him, he knows only before God. For if he reveals his confession to the Church or to his abbot, he is a betrayer and a confessor in one. In the contrary direction Master R. de Camera, the elder, advised: as often as he heard confessions he would say to penitents, “Hear what things must be concealed: I will conceal them. But \[as to\] what I will conceal — what kind of thing is it that has been confessed that is \[a matter of\] being a member of a religious order?” Moreover, this priest knows that this man is a member of a religious order and has made a vow of continence, and \[the priest\] wishes to annul it. Which he can \[illegible\] do; and it is not necessary for him to reveal that confession in public — he can say that he knows some reason why this marriage, if it be celebrated between that man and that woman, should not proceed.

## Again, a priest on Easter day having a host

consecrated and being at the hour of communion asks what he should do: whether it is lawful for him on such a day to consecrate another \[host\], and if he requests it; whether he should consume it since he has another; whether he should give it to the sick; or whether he should reserve a portion for the sick while leaving \[the remainder\]. Solution. Let the priest repent of his improvidence and negligence. If a priest does consecrate on such a day by reason of some emergency, this is contrary to the Church’s instruction. But if he reserves one part of the host on account of the pressing need of the sick, he does well — as is usually said, this is contrary to the Church’s instruction.

## If urgent

necessity often derogates from custom. Again, it often happens in a third case that someone is called to a prelacy and does not know whether that call is from God or was engineered by the devil; for it often happens that a canonical election comes from an ill-omened multitude \[illegible\]. What is a God-fearing man to do when called to a prelacy, and when he has such a host and a sick person at the point of death asks him for it\[?\]
