---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 94ra
pdf_page: 191
sortable_pagination_id: 191.1
---

restore what his abbot receives from a usurer. Solution. We say that a wife, son, servant, and monk must by every means possible urge their lords or abbots to make restitution of unlawfully acquired goods. If they cannot induce them to do so, and the wickedness of those lords is such that \[the dependents\] must in no way be complicit in their use of such goods, it does not pertain to \[the dependents\] to cause disorder by covert seizure of \[those goods\], because this could provide occasion for the defamation of those lords, or for mutilation \[of the dependents themselves\], or for accusation before judges. If a king punishes robbers and usurers and, by virtue of his assumed office, compels all robbers and usurers to make restitution — consider also the bishop who holds the sword on both sides, before whom a defendant worthy of death is brought. Plato says: “You shall not suffer evildoers to live.” If a criminal confesses to that same bishop a homicide he has committed, what is to be done in this matter touching the bishop? If the bishop says to his official, “Do what you ought to do,” he nonetheless begins to act as though he himself were procuring the man’s hanging, and thus sheds blood by his authority. The canon says: “Defenders of the Church are guilty of bloodshed.” And when it was said to David: “You shall not build the house, because you are a man of blood.” If the bishop absolves him, he thus takes upon himself the responsibility toward all the other Israelites, as it were, within the Church, and he would be placing the injury of the Church above all else. It is reported that Michael, Archbishop of Rouen, said: “In the name of the Lord, the cross and eyes.” Samson, Archbishop of Reims, is reported to have replied: “If such a one moves from where he has been brought to my presence —” Those versed in law who are questioned on this say that the bishop may say to his official: “Do what you must do in the matter of this crime.” If he cannot say the equivalent — if in that case it were permitted to say what is equivalent, as when the children of Israel \[said concerning\] Baal, where it was permitted to say its equivalent, namely, “my husband” — we therefore hold that, as the canon says, each bishop who holds the sword on both sides may delegate the execution of the material sword into the hands of a God-fearing man, who acts as a kind of syndic
