---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 94rb
pdf_page: 191
sortable_pagination_id: 191.2
---

and general administrator of all secular affairs that fall within the bishop’s jurisdiction. When these \[powers\] have been gathered into his code of ordinance in the patronage of that bishopric and temporal rights have been granted, he may judge freely according to the institutions of his age, and \[the bishop\] in turn according to the new and old statutes. Never ought any prelate to pronounce a sentence of death in his own person. He ought to commit the said criminal, and all like him, to the strictest prison, where he may do penance on the bread of tribulation and the water of anguish. There is also a case of a certain adulterer who sought access to a certain woman, and when her husband came upon them, the woman shut her adulterer in a chest. The husband, discovering this, opened the chest and immediately stabbed the adulterer with a knife and spilled his entrails. The homicide, fleeing while pursued, was then seized and besieged in the house of the deceased by the \[victim’s\] associates. The priest to whose care the soul of the adulterer belonged obtained leave and went alone to the homicide to hear his confession. Though he admonished the homicide again and again to repent both of the adultery and of the homicide he had recently committed, he could never draw from his mouth this single word of repentance — \[the man said\] that he was already dead and was so overwhelmed with grief that he could not repent. This may be drawn out morally: that no one who has not previously lived well can truly repent, or perhaps ever can repent, at the end. At last the robbers broke into the house and tore \[the homicide\] apart in the arms of the priest. The priest asks whether he should abstain from communion, since he was so negligent in obtaining \[the homicide’s\] release — for he could have sent a message through a child or a nearby woman to come to his aid, \[preventing\] the killing. So the question is whether the priest bears guilt for this homicide. Solution. Because the be-
