---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 96rb
pdf_page: 195
sortable_pagination_id: 195.2
---

noting that in the more difficult case, greater caution in what is said does not condemn anyone to death; one can liberate \[a person\] from death by a simple assertion, or \[even\] by a solemn oath, without swearing — that is, without condemning the one who is \[sought to be\] killed — since doing otherwise could give rise to a most wicked scandal. We shall speak of this more fully in the tract on action. Also, certain witnesses in a case over which you are appointed as judge come \[to testify\] on something that you do not believe; but you know they have given false testimony. If you have objections either against the witnesses or against the testimony, the question arises in that case whether you ought to declare their judgment confirmed or entirely void.

### XI.

It seems that those who take oaths in judgment must be retained \[as valid\], since throughout nearly the entire Gallican Church these are employed to solemnize divorces, and those who in fact break the bond and the covenant \[of marriage\]. To this the Cantor \[Petrus Cantor\] is accustomed to say that when a judge upholds allegations and testimonies against the truth of the matter, the lesser judge ought to refer the entire case to a greater judge — namely a cardinal, a metropolitan, or the Pope — and should lay before him the entire case and the merits of the case. If he \[the lesser judge\] does this, and the defendant is so poor or in such penury that he cannot go to the Apostolic See or gain the hearing of other judges, yet \[the judge\] sees him to be entirely innocent and can entirely acquit him: why then does he not acquit him, when he ought to acquit him, according to that \[precept\]: “Rescue him from the hand of the mighty”? In this point \[the Cantor holds\] that a judge is bound to the foregoing — knowing the interior truth of the case, he should acquit \[the defendant\], so that \[the acquittal is\] grounded in the authority of the superior and the intrinsic arguments brought forward, and let him thus acquit. Also, it frequently happens that in cities, brigands, or any assassins and criminals who come upon one in a wood or solitude, compel one to swear that if they let you go
