---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 96vb
pdf_page: 196
sortable_pagination_id: 196.2
---

chapter “qui compellet,” and Augustinus says the same in that chapter: “He who provokes a man to swear, and brings him to take a false oath, is a murderer — because that one kills the body while this one kills the soul, indeed two souls: his own, and that of the one who swears.” It ought to say there in chapter “qui exigit” and chapter “si quis connixtus”: from what has been said it is clear that lords who compel their servants to swear false oaths on their behalf are in the same condemnation as the servants, just as lords who command unlawful things and servants who obey unlawful commands are to be punished with equal penalty — “for not only those who do \[evil\] but those who consent to it are worthy of death.” There is another opinion among those decreeing practically any binding whatsoever — almost all of them \[holding\] that any oath which, if observed, would harm the salvation of the one who swore it must be kept, even if \[the oaths\] were sworn under compulsion. The argument for this position \[is found\] in that chapter of Alexander in the title on oaths. It is one thing to say that an oath must be maintained; it is another to say that going against one’s oath is a less serious matter than such an oath which, if observed, would harm the salvation of the one who swore it — and so it need not be kept. This is held at dist. xxii, q. iii, “si quid forte,” and also what, if observed at the cost of inexperience, harms the salutary state \[of the soul\] must be changed. So it is held at dist. xxv, q. v, c. “Auctores,” where it says that all are to be absolved from every sort of obligation by which persons have bound themselves under compulsion. Concerning that last chapter, note another \[ruling of\] Statualis: we see that clerics, coerced and having sworn an oath to the Church, abused their oath to their own release and thus merited their absolution. And so plainly, according to whatever oath he has sworn, the one who emits an oath is bound, just as neither coerced vows nor coerced marriages were \[considered\] to have been validly entered into. If they speak of the one who hears a false \[witness\], dist. xxiii,

## \[¶\]

and so forth: the canon says that he does not sin, as is held in that chapter. This may be seen in a few \[cases\], since

## If this is true

we observe that merchants and common laypeople everywhere swear false oaths by holy
