---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 97ra
pdf_page: 197
sortable_pagination_id: 197.1
---

\[things\] — we sin if we keep silent. We are bound to oppose them or, as is said at the end of the canons cited above, to report such excesses to those who can be of benefit rather than harm through \[correction of\] the perjury: either by correcting him, or by placating \[him\] according to God. Also Augustinus distinguishes three kinds of oaths: two venial and \[one\] which is mortal. \[The first is sworn\] for a just cause or for a reason of benevolence; the third is mortal, \[sworn\] for the sake of deception. By the same reasoning, a similar distinction must be made regarding perjury: some are to be called venial, namely those that arise from a certain common habit, while others are mortal, being committed for the purpose of deception. For if you say all perjuries are mortal, then by the same reasoning those committed by public gamesters or by opponents \[in disputes\] are also mortal. What shall we say of ourselves who have been blessed into ashes? And what do we say of ourselves, when we say these things, that we incur \[such sins\]? Furthermore, what shall a procurial priest \[do\] regarding those traders who frequent fairs, spice stalls, and emporia in this way, \[swearing falsely\]?

The place is \[too\] abysmal \[for anyone\] admitted there to be able to prevent a false witness from being admitted to give testimony; and where a judge, knowing and prudent, who cannot prevent the false \[testimony\], permits \[a person\] to swear falsely — without complicity \[on the judge’s part\]. If \[however\] we hear common swearers, traders, or others — since they swear well \[if\] they swear \[truly\] before us — we sin if we keep silent, since it pertains to us to examine the oaths of such persons; rather we ought to resist, for we are bound to urge them not to commit perjury, compelling them as we have \[argued\] above on that chapter “if your brother sins against you.” Regarding traders, we say that those who swear falsely in order to sell more dearly commit mortal sin, and the priest ought to treat them as mortal sinners in the penitential forum concerning their merchandise, and he ought to assign them due penance.

### Concerning those who swear everywhere, and

if anyone swears for the purpose of deceiving — on this objection Hieronymus says, at dist. xxii, q. v, in that chapter: “We have in the law concerning recourse \[to oaths\]: ‘You shall not swear falsely
