---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 97vb
pdf_page: 198
sortable_pagination_id: 198.2
---

against them. It is established that those who substituted \[false objects\] \[and made the others\] swear upon the Gospel, or upon a stone, or upon honest writings or respectable relics, in an dishonest and vile manner acted well by deceit and sinned — for deceit ought not to profit them. These are those oaths that are to be understood according to the intention of those who receive them. Hence Iohannes Chrysostomus says in the following chapter: “He who is prepared to swear falsely, before he commits perjury, is seen as pure, because God judges not by appearances but by thoughts and from the heart,” as that chapter argues. If the priest says \[something\] in dist. xv, q. vi — about oaths and those who administer oaths, duplicity does not diminish \[the obligation\] on either side — where \[the words\] on equal terms or in an ambiguous \[form\] are to be interpreted in the form of the law, this applies also where the one with changed intention gives \[the oath\] for reception. The other asks, however, how the oath is nonetheless to be understood: it is established that the one who swears must be held to what he himself understands, and not according to what those who administer it understand — it is to be received in a single sense. For what shall we say? If you say that those who swear are to be compelled to determine a single meaning — \[what\] if with respect to the same sense they reserve it deceitfully, or refuse to clarify their understandings? Solution. Hence Thomas Sanctus — the Alexandrian — replies in the tract on betrothals in that chapter “Ex trenti,” saying that in such a case one must have recourse to the common understanding of the words, and each person is to be pressed to state plainly in my \[plain\] sense \[illegible\], because those who understand rightly are accustomed to conceive \[them so\]. Responding together to the first question, we say that in whatever way oaths are administered without any duplicity, and the uncertain intention of the one who swears or administers them is understood according to the sense that the words are customarily used to signify, \[the oath is valid and\] he does not sin. But if he retains some fold of duplicity or contrives some deceitful \[ambiguity\] by cunning art, using a calculation or substitution, or subjoins something that is not to be appended or inferred — then the whole body \[of the oath\]
