---
reading: courson-summa-simony
page: 99rb
pdf_page: 201
sortable_pagination_id: 201.2
---

For there are eight kinds of lies, distinguished by wickedness or benevolence, by the salvation or advantage of another. The midwives in Exodus are said to have done this, who said a falsehood to Pharaoh in order to preserve the sons of the Hebrews. Among these intermediate \[kinds\] of lying, \[illegible\] fraud, \[illegible\] lie \[illegible\]. The argument is proved and praised, and those who \[illegible\] are thus freed from every lie. And another kind of lie which is true, which \[if it\] deceives. According to that one \[illegible\] truly \[illegible\]. And these two kinds of lying, if they are without fault, \[illegible\] for \[illegible\] is fault.

## For the perfect, however,

For the perfect, however, it is fitting that not even for the sake of preserving the temporal life of another, on whose death one must not kill one’s own soul, or \[yield\] \[illegible\] to Saracens or others in killing — even if it were lawful — and if it is lawful to say a falsehood, and if one does not wish to bring a man to death by \[losing\] his life \[illegible\], and if one says a falsehood, one kills neither one’s body nor one’s soul. For if, by fault, life is kept silent before the Lord, \[illegible\]. There, moreover, a double \[merit\] is conferred upon a lie \[illegible\] commended, and it allows \[one to\] render \[illegible\]. If afterward one sinned, having become insane, \[one is\] faithfully \[bound\] to render \[illegible\] — a double heart, because when one promised that \[the thing\] was to be rendered \[illegible\] one ought to receive \[it\]. The third kind of lie is that which proceeds from malice and duplicity, which all men must especially guard against. In this distinction there is contained a manifold question. First, concerning this — that \[illegible\] from what is to what is not: this applies entirely \[illegible\] to one who is already \[illegible\] a lie in which there is no \[sin\]. Likewise, a lie is a false vocal utterance with intent to deceive. This definition fits the lie; and it also fits those lies that involve no intent to deceive whatsoever. Likewise, as stated by Augustinus above, for there to be a lie it is necessary that falsehood be present contrary to one’s conscience. If someone says that \[he\] does not speak a lie against his conscience, then whoever
