---
reading: basil-letter-53
page: 338
pdf_page: 399
sortable_pagination_id: 399
---

on the matter be received by any that has qualms of conscience as a medicine, by any that has no qualms as a precaution, and by any that is indifferent (I pray that none such may be found amongst you) as a solemn protest.

But what is it that I have in mind? The report is that some of you take money from candidates for ordination, and cover it up under the name of piety. But that only makes the matter worse. For if any one does an evil thing under the guise of good, he deserves a twofold punishment, because he not only does what is in itself not good, but also makes use of the good as a co-worker, so to speak, for the accomplishment of his sin. If this be true, let it not happen in future, but be corrected; for we must say to any who accepts such money what the Apostles said to the man who wanted to pay for participation in the Holy Spirit: “” For he who sells and he who wants to buy is less guilty than he who sells the gift of God. For the transaction has become a matter of business; and if you sell what you have received as a free gift, you will be despoiled of all its grace, as if you yourself were sold to Satan. For you are bringing the huckster’s traffic into spiritual affairs, and into the Church, where we are entrusted with the body and blood of Christ. These things must not be done in this way. I will tell you what the artifice is. They think that they commit no sin, because they receive the money after and not before the ordination. But to take is to take, whenever it happens.
