---
reading: ames-conscience-5.42
page: 229
pdf_page: 405
sortable_pagination_id: 405
---

# Chap. XLII. Of Contracts.

## Quest. I. VVHat law is there of the efficient causes of contracts?

1. *A.* 1. To a lawfull Contract, first are required Persons fit to a Contract, *(id est,)* they which have the administration of their owne goods, or power to oblige themselves in such things, *Act 5. 4.*

2. *A.* 2. Hence Infants, mad-men, and prodigals are not fit to make a Contract: and under that title their Contracts by the Civill law, are deservedly accounted nullities.

3. *A.* 3. Those that are under age, and are come to the perfect use of reason, although they have as yet overseers, if on mature counsell they doe bargaine, that Contract considered in it selfe, according to the Court of Conscience, seemes to bee of force. Whence the Lawyers teach, that those being under age, which Contract without the authority of their Guardians, although they are not obliged by the Civill law, yet by the naturall they are.

4. *A.* 4. In the second place is required, either the formall, or virtuall consent of the Contracters, and that with three conditions: That first, It bee free, at least so farre as one is bound freely to will and agree, although he will not in an illicite act. Secondly, Promissive, *(id est,)* with a mind to bee obliged to those lawes of that Contract which is made. Thirdly, Expressed by some outward signe.

5. *A.* 5. From the first condition it followes, that the consent which is wrested by extreame feare, is not sufficient to a firme Contract.
