---
reading: ames-conscience-5.42
page: 230
pdf_page: 406
sortable_pagination_id: 406
---

6. *A.* 3. Yet this must bee so understood: First, That the feare is inferred to that end onely that consent might bee forced. For if it should bee induced for another end, and hee which is afraid to avoid that evill should make a contract, that contract will bee of force: as if one being taken by a theife, should promise a fumme of money to bee freed, that feare was not the cause, but the occasion onely of the contract.

Secondly, The feare must bee brought on unjustly. For if one out of feare of punishment established by the lawes, should bargaine with him, to whom hee hath done an injury, such a bargaine cannot bee disannulled.

7. *A.* 7. From the second condition it followes, that promise which is drawne out by guile, or given out of errour, or is so imperfect, that it containes not an intention of obliging, doth not properly make a contract. Howsoever if one being deceived with anothers words to his owne losse, taking those for a promise, hee is bound to performe what hee promised in that way of speaking, lest hee should bee a cause of dammage which would follow.

8. *A.* 8. From the third condition it followes, that an internall promise made to a man doth not bind; the reason is, because the internall acts, are not fit instruments of conveighing our meanings and consents to others.

## Quest. 2. *What law is there concerning the matter, about which contracts are versed?*

9. *A.* 1. Lawfull contracts are not properly exercised, but about lawfull things, the reason is: First, Because in every contract, consent is given: but consent to an unlawfull thing is sinne. Secondly, Contract in it selfe hath the force of promise: but it is not lawfull to promise, what is not lawfull to performe. Thirdly, From a contract an obligation doth arise; but no obligation can bee lawfull which obligeth to sinne, because under that very title it is repugnant to the obligation of the Divine law.

10. *A.* 2. Hence a contract or bargaine for any dishonest thing, is also it selfe dishonest as a bargaine for mur-
