---
reading: ames-conscience-5.42
page: 231
pdf_page: 407
sortable_pagination_id: 407
---

der, or whoredome, &c. The reason is, because such bargaines are ordained to dishonesty as their end, and therefore are of the same nature with the end it selfe, that is dishonest. But if it bee asked, if after the dishonest action committed, the contract obligeth him which promised, or if it bee lawfull to receive the hire bargained for in consideration of the danger, labour, and losse, which was joyned with the dishonesty, it may bee probably answered, that the promiser is obliged, but it will hardly stand with true repentance, if the other party doe receive it, Matth. 27, 3, 4.

11. A. 3. Contracts of buying, and selling, and those which are of the same nature, have no place in some things: not because they are not lawfull or good in themselves, but because they are so good that they cannot bee valued at a price.

12. A. 4. Hence it is a sinne of Simony, to buy or sell, or any way change a holy and Spirituall, for a Temporall; the reason is,

First, Because holy things ought to bee used as holy, not polluted, and profaned, which then they are, when they are brought downe, as Worldly things, into Temporall contracts, being it is against the Religion and reverence, which is due to holy things.

Secondly, Because it is injustice to sell those things, which are to bee bestowed on free cost, Matth. 10, 8.

13. A. 5. This sinne is extended not onely to supernaturall gifts, (which yet was the sinne of Simon Magus, from whom it tooke it's name;) But also first, To the causes of such gifts, as the Sacraments and the like. Secondly, To things annexed to such gifts, as they are such. Such are all those, which are so adjoyned to the Spirituall function and office, either as they goe before, accompany, or follow after it, that they can no wayes bee separated from it.

14. A. 6. Hence, not onely those are guilty of Simony, which buy or sell those things which directly belong to the election, ordination, or vocation of Ecclesiasticall Ministers, but all such, as in order to that calling, buy or sell those things
