---
reading: ames-conscience-5.42
page: 232
pdf_page: 408
sortable_pagination_id: 408
---

things which are set apart for the maintaining of Ministers, which usually are called benefices.

15. *A. 7.* Such Simoniacall bargaines, not onely consists in money, but in all those things, which can bee valued, and rated with money, or hath the like nature with it, in respect to spirituall things. Hence a Simoniacall gift is not absurdly divided, into a gift from the hand, a gift from the tongue, and a gift from observance. A gift from the hand is money, or that, which is of the same valew with it. By the gift from the tongue are understood prayers, prayses, entreaties, flatteries, if they have the power of obtaining Spirituall things. By the gift from observance, is understood some Temporall deed, which induceth the bestowing of Spirituall, as payment of a debt, whether the bargaine bee expressed, or tacitely understood.

16. *A. 8.* To intend onely such donations or receivings, although it consists in one party alone, yet it is a kind of degree of this sinne, and so it is not ill called Mentall Simony, and by some Confidentiall, as it is distinguished, from conventionall, and reall.

17. *A. 9.* That which is given to the sustentation of those, which are the helpers, and Ministers of Spirituall things, hath no kind of Simony in it. That also hath a place here which is said of the reward of Physitians, and Schoolemasters: *Wee doe not pay them the price of the thing, but their worke, because they serve, and being called from their owne affaires, they attend ours. They doe not receive the reward of their desert, but employment.*

18. *A. 10.* Neither is it properly Simony, when somewhat is given out of meere gratitude, not by any agreement tacite, or expressed, direct, or indirect. Neither if any thing is given by him, which hath a certaine and undoubted right to the Spirituall function, for the avoyding of unjust troubles. Howsoever in these wee must beware of deceit, and the very appearance of evill is to bee avoyded.

19. *A. 11.* And although there is not in every respect parity, yet there is some similitude, and proportion betwixt
