---
reading: ames-conscience-5.42
page: 233
pdf_page: 409
sortable_pagination_id: 409
---

betwixt things sacred and publique offices, which have the power of jurisdiction. For the sale of such offices, hath a dishonest corruptnesse, which thwarts the nature of them. For as it is repugnant to the act of jurisdiction, that it should bee saleable, so is it also to the power of exercising that act. Neither indeed, hath the Prince himselfe Dominion over the offices of jurisdiction, but onely administration. There are also so many evils which spring from this kind of traffick, that it is had in detestation with all ingenuous men.

## Quaest. 3. What law is there concerning the forme of Contracts?

20. A. 1. The externall forme is not the same set and determinated by any law, either naturall, divine, or civill. For it may consist in any declaration of mutuall consent whatsoever, whether it bee done by words, or gestures, or writing, or the delivery of the thing it selfe. Therefore, although that forme hath power of obliging, yet because it is not of force in it selfe, but as it hath relation to the internall Court, for that cause it doth the lesse belong to the internall Court of Conscience.

21. A. 2. The internall forme of a lawfull Contract, is upright dealing, by which one doth sincerely intend to oblige himselfe to the performance of that which hee professeth, and afterwards to performe it as much, as in him lieth. The reason is, because a Contract includes a promissive consent. Now a promise is a testimony, by which one binds his faith to deale uprightly with another in the performance of this or that; and therefore the forme doth require internall, and essentiall the upright dealing of the Contracter, to bee true, and sincere.

22. A. 3. Hence that division of Contracts; by which some are said to bee according to upright meaning, others to bee according to the strictnesse of the law, is not accurate, and hath not place either in the Court of Conscience, or before God. For upright meaning is required in all Contracts, and because the chiefest part of the nature of Contracts doth consist in that, the judgement as farre as it can appeare, is to bee given out of that, and according to
