---
reading: ames-conscience-5.42
page: 234
pdf_page: 410
sortable_pagination_id: 410
---

to it. Therefore in all Contracts, wee should proceed according to right, and good, not the letters, or extreame rigour of the law, in which often times the most extreame injury is found.

23. A. 4. Sometimes not to stand to promises, is not repugnant to honest meaning; to wit, when the promise leaves off to bind :

As first, If the thing promised becomes unprofitable, unlawfull, or impossible.

Secondly, If the state of the things and persons is so changed, that in the judgement of wisemen, the promiser is thought, that hee would not have comprehended such an event.

Thirdly, If the other party, in whose favour the thing was promised, should remit it.

Fourthly, If hee which promised on the other side, will not fulfill his promise.

Fiftly, If any thing bee promised for that cause, which afterwards is found not to bee in it.

24. A. 5. Repugnant to honest meaning is dissimulation; that is, craftinesse, subtlety, fraud, cheating, plots, or contrivements either in words, or deeds, applied to the deceiving or circumventing anothers. 1 Theffal. 4. 6. 1 Cor. 6. 8. It is usually called evill craft, that it may bee distinguished from an honest devise, by which one is willingly cheated into right reason.

25. A. 6. It is repugnant to honest meaning, in as much, as it takes away the cleare intention of performing, that which was pretended, and seemed to bee promised.

26. A. 7. This guile, if it bee about the substance of a thing, as if one should sell glasse for a pearle, the Contract in its owne nature is made voyd, because in such a Contract the consent is wanting. For hee which woulde buy a pearle, meanes not glasse.

27. A. 8. Alike is the nature of evill guile, which yeeldeth the chiefe cause to a Contract, although it meddles not with the substance of the thing, as if one should perswade his chapman to buy a pearle for that reason onely that before
