---
reading: ames-conscience-5.42
page: 235
pdf_page: 411
sortable_pagination_id: 411
---

fore it was his Fathers, who otherwise would not have bought it. For such a Contract is made voyd or to bee made voyd, because hee which was brought in by guile to bargaine, suffers injury in the Contract; and therefore is fully to bee satisfied by the undoing of the Contract.

28. *A. 9.* When this guile lights oncly on the Contract, and is about it's accidents: as if one should bee deceived in the goodnesse of a thing, and is brought in by deceit, not that hee should buy, but that hee should buy for more then its value; it doth not make the Contract utterly voyd, or altogether to bee made voyd: howsoever hee which deceives is bound in Conscience, to recompence the others dammage according to equity.

29. *A. 10.* Of this kind is that deceit, when the seller conceales from the buyer some hidden fault of the thing sold, which bringeth dammage or losse to the buyer.

30. *A. 11.* To this also belongs, if the seller knowing that in short time, there will bee great store of such wares, by which occasion the price will bee diminished, and hee shall suffer great losse which shall buy before at the current price, will neither foretell that to the buyer, or abate the price: or also if the buyer knowes that in short time, there will be great store of buyers, and scarsity of wares, by which the prices of things will bee encreased, and the seller brought into poverty by selling at the usuall rate. For in such cases wee are bound, at least by the law of charity, to foresee for our neighbours good, as long as it may bee done without any great losse to us.

31. *A. 12.* Those Civill lawes which confirme a Contract made by circumvention, so it bee under halfe of the just price, are permissive onely to diminish strifes, and doe not justifie the Contract, but leave it to bee judged in the Court of Conscience, by the law of nature, and the Divine law.

32. *A. 13.* That fault also is opposed to honest dealing, which consists in the inconsiderate omission of that diligence, which might and should have beene added to the fulfilling of the Contract. It differs from deceit, because
