---
reading: ames-conscience-5.42
page: 236
pdf_page: 412
sortable_pagination_id: 412
---

deceit properly is used wittingly, and on set purpose: but this fault proceeds from not heeding, or inconsideration without set purpose or intent. It is repugnant to honest dealing, not because it doth simply exclude sincere intent, but because it doth shew, that diligent and due care of performance was wanting. Therefore it is rightly called by the Apostle *lightnesse*, 2 Cor. 1. 17.

33. *A.* 14. This fault is divided into open, slight, & slightest. The open fault, is the omission of that diligence, which men in the like case ordinarily apply, as if one should leave a borrowed booke in some open place from whence it may bee taken away. A slight fault is the omission of that diligence, which diligent men of the like case commonly use, as if one should leave a thing entrusted of great value in an unlockt Chamber, from whence it may bee taken away. The slightest fault, is the omission of that diligence, which the most diligent in the like case are wont to adde, as if hee should leave that thing entrusted, and thinke the doore lockt, and yet doth not certainely know.

34. *A.* 15. From the open fault, all Contractors are held guilty of the dammage, which shall thence ensue. Because common diligence is contained in the obligation of every promise, and the omission of it, is manifestly repugnant to honest dealing. Whence it is, that this open fault is wont to bee ranked almost in the same place, and order, with evill guile.

35. *A.* 16. From the slight, or slightest fault, they are bound so farre, as either the nature of the Contract, or the agreement of the parties require, or also so farre as humane lawes out of equity have established.

## Quest. 4. *What law is there concerning the end of Contracts?*

36. *A.* 1. The end of a Contract, ought alwayes to bee some good. For neither obligation, promise, or consent, ought to tend to evill.

37. *A.* 2. Contracts ought chiefly to bee for the good of the parties. For they are employed about their goods, and not other mens. For no man can bargaine about those goods, which are not in his owne power.

38. *A.* 3. Some
