---
reading: ames-conscience-5.42
page: 237
pdf_page: 413
sortable_pagination_id: 413
---

38. A. 3. Some Contracts are for the good of the giver onely, as a thing entrusted, a command. Others for the good of the receivers onely as a gift, a free lone. Others for the good of both, as buying, letting out, partnership, pawnes, exchange, &c. But this difference although it properly depends on the nature of the Contracts themselves, yet upon the agreement of the parties it may bee changed, and many ends mixed together, as a thing entrusted may bee sometimes for the good of him, which is entrusted, and a free lone for the good also of the lender.

39. A. 4. To seeke ones owne good onely in that Contract, which in its nature tends to the good of another, or of both sides favours of fraud, and oftentimes is repugnant to justice, but alwayes to Christian charity.

Quest. What is the effect of Contracts?

40. A. 1. The effect of every lawfull Contract, is the bond of obligation to performe that, to which it hath consented. First, Because every one is bound to stand to that, which hee hath lawfully promised. Secondly, Because from promise, and the acceptation of it, the other party hath gained right and power of demanding the promise. Whence it is, that no Contract can bee broken, the party to whom it is availeable being unwilling.

41. A. 2. This obligation, because it is not extended beyond upright meaning, doth therefore sometimes cease upon a meere chance, or an unthought of event which happens without the fault of the obliged, seeing it could not bee hindered by humane providence.

42. A. 3. But although, regularly and according to the nature of the thing it selfe, no man is bound by a casuall chance, which comes betweene without his fault: yet hee may bee bound to such chance by some particular agreement, because such an obligation can bee valewed at a certaine price.
