---
reading: damian-liber-gratissimus
page: 19
pdf_page: 33
sortable_pagination_id: 33
---

## I. That Christ, though he distributes his gifts through many, yet retains in himself the fullness of all grace.

It is evident that Christ Jesus, the mediator between God and humanity, so ordered his Church from the very beginning of human redemption that he both distributed the gifts of charisms through the ministers of his word and yet principally retained in himself the fullness of all graces. For he who as an apostle says, “We hold this treasure in earthen vessels,” also confesses that in the breast of Jesus are hidden all the treasures of wisdom. But if all treasures are in the breast of Jesus and nothing is excluded, what then remains to be stored away in earthen vessels of men? Yet what he possesses in full by nature, they have through grace by participation in him, according to their respective measures. Of them it is said that “one and the same Spirit works all these things, distributing to each as he wills.” But of the only-begotten Son, John the Baptist says: “God does not give the Spirit by measure,” and again: “From his fullness we have all received.” Since all the righteous draw from that one source the means of life, they must always return to him with thanksgiving. Nor should they believe they can receive the gifts of heavenly grace from any other source, except by his bestowal, from whom those gifts are certain to flow. For those who consider themselves debtors for divine bounty not to God but to a man are, as it were, cut off from the irrigation of their own spring, and must inevitably wither and dry up. Nor can they flow of themselves

## XI. It is no wonder that the Holy Spirit is received from the unworthy, since the Son himself was seized by the impious.

## XII. That the gift of God is polluted by no contamination of its ministers.

## XIII. That neither a minister of the word nor of the sacrament can obstruct God’s gifts.

## XIV. That it was not Moses himself, but God, who gave of his spirit to the seventy men.

## XV. That those who come to be consecrated already possess the Holy Spirit.

## XVI. That evil beginnings often lead to happy outcomes.

## XVII. That reason does not allow that the Holy Spirit can be given through a simoniac in baptism but not in consecration.

## XVIII. That attention must be paid to what is received, not from whom it is received.

## XIX. That neither the Novatianists are to be deposed nor the Arians rebaptized.

## XX. That the effect of consecration rests on the foundation of faith.

## XXI. That bishops who have been wrongly ordained possess the grace of consecration for others, but not for themselves.

## XXII. That those ordained by impious heretics are often not removed from their offices.

## XXIII. That even those whom Acacius ordained after his own condemnation are not deprived of their honors.

## XXIV. That the simoniacal heresy has flourished up to the present time.

## XXV. Here it is plainly proved that the Holy Spirit is received through simoniacs.

## XXVI. That rebaptism and reconsecration are an equal crime.
