---
reading: damian-liber-gratissimus
page: 74
pdf_page: 88
sortable_pagination_id: 88
---

But now, having traversed the open sea, we grip the helm and lower the sails, for with Christ as guide, sighting the shore, we draw near to harbor.

## XL. Where the substance of the completed work is concluded with an address to the bishop of Ravenna.

Finally I return to you, Henry, venerable father, and come back, now at the very end of this little work, to him with whom I began. Here, I beg, let there be no scrutiny of the ornate elegance of labored diction, no demand for the keenness of careful wit, but rather rude simplicity and a poor style that can scarcely express what it means. For my purpose was to set forth certain serious and necessary matters more usefully than brilliantly to the hearts of my brethren, and not to serve the enticements of ears with the allurements of empty words. For you know well that a style deliberately polished empties the vigor from its meaning, and an elaborated brilliance enervates the force of what is said. Let those who toil with a certain pleasing charm of flattering speech to hunt the favorable applause of men minister to them with grand and weighed words. But we who are commanded to go with bare feet \[cf. Exodus 3:5; Luke 10:4\] should not write in buskins \[i.e., in the elevated style of tragedy\]. And for those upon whom the discipline of silence is enjoined, the tattered prolixity of luxuriant eloquence does not seem fitting. Wherefore, dearest friend, I offer this work, composed in a rustic and rough style, to your hands — as it were like worthless fruit — and since the countryside has brought forth nothing better, pray do not despise it. Plainly, because, so to speak, you ascend to the highest honor from the same stock from which I drew my origin, I chose you above all others to receive this little gift, and truly, as a very slight sheep presenting to its own proper shepherd the fruit not of the belly but of the mind. I know, moreover, that your church, after the likeness of the apostolic senate, is adorned with a college of holy bishops that is not so much numerous as venerable and august. Through the zeal of these men she so preserves the right line of apostolic tradition, so perseveres immovably in the purity of most sincere faith, that, with every heretical wickedness removed, she represents even today that Church which existed under the apostles, or indeed seems to reproduce the very seat of faith, Nicaea itself. From these men, therefore, let your holiness select those who seem fit, and together with them carefully inquire and prudently examine whether this work accords with catholic faith and sound doctrine. And if this book is found to be blameworthy in a forgivable way, let your prudence correct it, and in such form present it also to the most blessed pope — if it passes through your hands, as rumor scatters abroad — so that what is held in low regard because of the author’s inept composition may be commended by the devotion of so great a labor. But if — which we do not believe — it proves so thoroughly subject to erasure that it cannot be corrected, let the devouring flame consume it before it is brought to public notice. So that what is said there may not unfittingly be applied here: “You have Aaron and Hur with you; if any question arises, refer it to them” \[Exodus 17:12\]. For I have no shame in blotting out what I write, since I do not blush to confess freely what I believe; so that one who notes the tongue-tied author may be able to find the faithful one in return. \[Blessed be the name of the Lord!\]

## EXPLICIT LIBER QUI APPELLATUR GRATISSIMUS.
