---
reading: luther-genesis-23.3-4
page: 288
pdf_page: 300
sortable_pagination_id: 300
---

where either is lacking, there is ἀναρχία \[anarchy\] and the worst possible condition. For it is not enough to have only a hearing ear without a seeing eye, nor the reverse.

Among the Hebronites, Abraham was the seeing eye by his teaching and the governing of his household, and they were the hearing ear; there the word bore abundant fruit. But if the eye does not see — as the Pope is a blinded and accursed eye — yet the ear still hears, as we have heretofore most eagerly listened to and embraced his traditions, there lies the surest road to ruin.

Today we have the seeing eye — that is, the pure teaching of the word. But we find no hearing ear, for our teaching is despised and indeed horribly blasphemed. Where both are truly present, that is God’s doing, and it is a divine miracle, in which God and the angels in heaven rejoice.

The second sign of goodwill and humanity toward Abraham is in the offer of a place. “Go,” they say, “wherever you please, to the garden of any prince or counselor” — for it was their custom for each person to bury his dead in whatever place pleased him. “We therefore grant you not merely a common grave, but one of the more select ones.”

It is certainly a remarkable act of reverence, which they had no doubt learned in the church of Abraham, who had instructed and educated them in spirit and made them well-mannered in the flesh. And they add further: “No one will be able to prevent you” — you will be free to choose whatever you wish.
