---
reading: peter-cantor-verbum-simony
page: 106
pdf_page: 57
sortable_pagination_id: 57.2
---

\[be\] freed from purgatory by a Mass inserted in this way — \[the soul\] of the just man of Aachen who asked that a Mass be celebrated for him by a just man, and so would obtain his liberation? Item: the example of Master Fulco, dean of Reims, who was unwilling for his father’s anniversary to be aggregated with the bishop’s anniversary. Item: the example of the matron who refused Masses offered by a priest to be sung for the faithful in Lent, which, although enjoined upon her as a penance, she nevertheless did not wish to have sung by a priest already bound to the Lenten \[liturgical\] service.

But what shall a priest do when asked by this person and that to perform trentals, if he is insufficient to carry out the individual trentals? Let him say to those asking: “Therefore I will remember your dear ones in so many Masses.” Let him not say: “I will perform a trental for them,” unless he intends a special \[trental\]. For one carrying out general \[Masses\] is not thereby released from the special ones that the petitioner understood to be promised to him. Item: if this kind of insertion and plurality of Masses is lawful, a priest is obliged to concede to each person asking for however many Masses that they be sung for him, since what is asked can easily be fulfilled through such an arrangement. Item: a dry Mass, which is without the grace and moisture of the confection of the Eucharist, is not celebrated for the faithful. If therefore two introits are prefixed to the \[consecrated\] host, one of them will be a dry Mass and so will benefit \[souls\] no more than one said after the Mass; and \[the proponents\] say it too is prefixed to the host. Why then is it prefixed to the host in an inserted Mass? Out of greed and to the defrauding of souls? Item: besides the duplication and insertion of Masses, greed has invented novel Masses, such as a single Mass to be sung for all the apostles. Item: a Mass of the Epiphany or of some other solemnity to be sung every day, even on Easter day — contrary to \[the principle\]:

*(Let each thing keep the place fittingly allotted to it.)*

So that in Paschaltide Masses and praises belonging to another \[season\] are sung, and likewise in other seasons, so that the variety of offices may increase the devotion of the ministers and remove the tedium of sameness. I do not censure such devotion if practiced by custom even on Easter day — if it is a Mass of the angels — except on account of scandal. Item: certain \[persons\] even have anniversary Masses celebrated for themselves while still living, and these conflict with the suffrages and prayers instituted for the dead. Item (and I say this weeping): certain persons have turned this great sacrament to magic, celebrating Masses over wax images to put a curse on someone; indeed, they order a Mass to be sung ten or more times as a curse upon someone, so that within ten days or shortly after he may die and be buried with the dead. Item: now certain persons are inventing a Mass for the slaughtered as if new martyrs, prostrated “in the circuit of Jerusalem” (Psalm 78), thinking it an effective attraction for offerings on account of popular sympathy for the slain. To expel this manifold sickness from the Church I believe there is one sole remedy, namely: if there were fewer churches, fewer altars in them, fewer and more selective ordinations, selectiveness among those ordained and admitted, and above all selectiveness especially in the appointment of the lesser superiors of priests —
