---
reading: ames-marrow-2.16
page: 297
pdf_page: 309
sortable_pagination_id: 309
---

religious worship commanded in the First Table, but only of justice, or of that duty owed to our neighbor which is contained in the Second Table. Hence also those arguments drawn from the nature of the thing exclude all adoration of creatures. Acts 10:26: “Rise, for I myself am also a man.” Revelation 22:9: “See that you do not do it, for I am your fellow servant and of your brethren the prophets, and of those who keep the words of this book — worship God.” Revelation 22:9.

5. But within this number and name, every person is proportionally included even with respect to himself; for each person is first a neighbor to himself, and then to others. Hence no special precept is given for ordering a person toward himself: for while he is rightly ordered toward God and toward his neighbor, he is also ordered toward himself. The difference, however, is this: the disposition that makes one fit to perform his duty to God and his neighbor pertains to his perfection; but he must also perform those same duties both to his neighbor and to himself — though not to God and himself \[in the same way\].

6. But because the manner in which duties are to be exercised toward our neighbor involves regard and affection for their good, this same virtue is called charity toward our neighbor. Matthew 22:29 \[sic: Matthew 22:39\]. Mark 12:31.

7. In this charity there is always love of union, of delight, and of goodwill — as in the love that is toward God. But there is also frequently added the consideration of mercy, when the misery of our neighbor is regarded, which has no place in our charity toward God.

8. But this bond of justice and this affection of charity ought always to flow from and be derived from religion toward God. For since religion gives supreme honor to God, it causes obedience to be rendered to his will in those things that immediately concern creatures as well. Hence all who neglect their duty toward others are said not to honor God, but rather to despise him. 1 Samuel 2:30. Likewise, charity toward God that is contained in religion naturally produces charity toward others, insofar as they are in some measure partakers of the image of God — whence
