---
reading: ames-marrow-2.16
page: 299
pdf_page: 311
sortable_pagination_id: 311
---

14. Hence it is that love of ourselves has the force of a rule or measure for the love of others: *Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.*

15. Hence it is never lawful to commit any sin for the sake of another, even if the offense may seem small and the benefit sought for another may appear to be a supreme good — for whoever knowingly and willingly sins hates his own soul. Proverbs 8:36 & 29:24: *He that sins against me does violence to his own soul. He that is a partner with a thief hates himself, and he that, hearing a curse, does not disclose it.*

16. Among other men, none who is capable of blessedness ought to be wholly excluded from the embrace of our charity; for if we love God above all things, no enmities will so far prevail with us as to prevent us from loving even our enemies for God’s sake. Matthew 5:39; Romans 12:17; 1 Thessalonians 5:15; 1 Peter 3:9.

17. But among men, those are to be loved more than others who stand nearer to God, and in God to ourselves. Galatians 6:10: *Let us do good to all, but especially to the household of faith.*

18. But because those who believe are more closely united both to God and to us spiritually than those who do not yet believe, they are therefore also to be more dearly loved.

19. Yet this must be understood as referring to the present time and to the immediate affection; for we may will the same good to certain others as much or even more in the time to come, when the grace of God and faith shall come between — in which sense the Apostle’s affection concerning the *Israelites* is to be understood. Romans 9:3.

20. If among those who are to be loved there is no apparent disparity, either in respect of God or in respect of ourselves, then they are to be loved equally.

21. But if any apparent disparity appears — whether in their nearness to God or to ourselves — then the one who exceeds in any nearness is to be more greatly loved. That is, when we cannot exercise the act of our love equally toward all, we are more bound to bestow our love on those whom God has commended to us by some special nearness or communion, rather than on
