---
reading: ames-marrow-2.16
page: 302
pdf_page: 314
sortable_pagination_id: 314
---

33. Included in this prayer is not only petition but also thanksgiving, whereby we praise God for the good things he has bestowed on our neighbors. Romans 1:8–10.

34. Opposed to this praying is imprecation, which tends toward the harm of our neighbor and is called cursing.

35. Working good toward our neighbor is an endeavor directed at him and tending to his good; hence it is also called a good deed. Matthew 5:44. And \[it is called\] love in deed. 1 John 3:18.

36. This working is distinguished from praying, because although prayer is also an endeavor tending to the good of our neighbor, it is not immediately exercised upon our neighbor but is directed toward God.

37. Yet to this working must be referred those endeavors which are exercised upon other creatures for our neighbor’s sake; for in those cases our actions have the same kind of efficiency as if they were exercised immediately upon our neighbor himself.

38. Now this endeavor is either by moral persuasion or by real effecting.

39. An endeavor of moral persuasion consists in setting forth good to be performed, with arguments by which a person may be stirred up to it.

40. And this is accomplished by admonition and good example.

41. Admonition is taken generally for any warning given by words, whether to procure and bring about good for our neighbor or to drive away and make up for any harm.

42. It therefore includes our duty to teach and admonish (Colossians 3:16); to watch over others so that we may spur them on to love and good works (Hebrews 10:24); to exhort them daily (Hebrews 3:13); to comfort them in sorrow and grief (1 Thessalonians 4:18); and to correct them in a brotherly manner if they are overtaken by some offense. Galatians 6:1. Revelation 19:17.

43. But this brotherly correction is to be used when we know with certainty that the evil to be corrected has been committed, when there is hope of some fruit or good to follow from our correction,
