---
reading: ames-marrow-2.16
page: 303
pdf_page: 315
sortable_pagination_id: 315
---

\[whether it tends toward the recovery of one who has\] fallen, or toward preserving others from falling into the same sin; and lastly, when there is a fitting opportunity with respect to time, person, and circumstances.

44. Opposed to this admonition is consent or communion with others in their sins. Ephesians 5:7, 11.

45. One is said to be a partaker of another’s sin in nine ways, which are set down in Latin thus:

*Iussio, consilium, consensus, palpa, recursus, Participans, mutans, non obstans, non manifestans.*

That is, in summary: consent is given to sinners by counseling, defending, helping, permitting when we could hinder, and by holding our peace when we might profitably speak. Romans 1:32.

46. Good example is a representation of a good work whereby others may be stirred up to perform the like. 1 Timothy 4:12. Titus 2:4, 7. Matthew 5:16. 1 Peter 2:12.

47. Opposed to good example is scandal. 1 Corinthians 10:32. Give no offense to the Jews, to the Gentiles, nor to the Church of God.

48. A scandal is a representation of an evil work whereby others may either be stirred up to sin (whence it is called *πρόσκομμα*, or a cause of stumbling) or be hindered or slackened from doing good (whence it is called *ἀσθένεια*, or a cause of weakening); and that is properly called a scandal. 1 Corinthians 8:9, 10. Take heed that your liberty does not become an occasion of stumbling to the weak, etc. Romans 14:21. \[Anything\] in which your brother stumbles, or is offended, or is made weak.

49. In every evil work that is made known to others there is the character of a scandal. Matthew 18:6, 7, 8. Whoever shall be an offense. If your hand, foot, or eye causes you to offend. If your brother sins against you.

50. There is also sometimes a scandal in a work that is lawful in itself, if it is not expedient in regard to others. 1 Corinthians 8:13. If my meat offends my brother, I will never eat flesh, lest I offend my brother.

51. But an indifferent thing is said to be expedient or not expedient when, all circumstances considered, it does or does not make for the glory of God and the edification of our neighbor.

52. There is no human authority that can make that action law-
