---
reading: ames-marrow-2.16
page: 305
pdf_page: 317
sortable_pagination_id: 317
---

63. Hence we are more bound to pay our debts than to give anything of our own; and one who has wronged another is more bound to seek reconciliation than the one who was wronged.

64. In many matters there is a twofold consideration of justice: one that regards the proximate end and the letter of the binding law, which is called justice in the strictest sense; and another that regards the remote end and the reason of the law, which is called equity or *epieikeia*.

65. Justice of this kind has two parts: one that gives to each person what is his own, called distributive justice; and another that restores to each person what is his own, which may be called emendative justice.

66. Distributive justice cannot be rightly exercised without a sound judgment of things and persons, and a fitting comparison of things with things and persons with persons, from which arises the proportion they call geometrical.

67. Opposed to distributive justice is the acceptance of persons, whereby one is preferred over another in the distribution of due good without just cause.

68. Emendative justice is either commutative or corrective.

69. Commutative justice is the equality of what is given and what is received.

70. Corrective justice presupposes some injustice, and it is either civil or criminal.

71. Civil \[corrective justice\] chiefly corrects the injustice of the cause.

72. Criminal \[corrective justice\] chiefly corrects the injustice of the person.

73. To corrective justice belong revenge and restitution.

74. Revenge is an act of corrective justice whereby punishment is inflicted on one who has violated justice.

75. The end of revenge ought to be the amendment or restraint of the offender, quietness and admonition to others, and thereby the preservation of justice and the honor of God. Deuteronomy 13:11; 17:13; 19:20; 21:21: *That all Israel may hear, and fear, and do no such iniquity in the midst of thee.*

76. Restitution is an act of corrective justice whereby another is restored to possession of what is his own, of which he was unjustly deprived.

77. Hence
