---
reading: burton-simony
page: 1
pdf_page: 17
sortable_pagination_id: 17
---

# A CENSVRE OF SIMONIE.

Here first I may seeme to vsurpe the Mathematicians priuiledge, in begging a Suppositum, that such a thing there is, as Simony. For in the opinion of many, Simony hath lost its being, in rerum natura, as being long agoe antiquated, and out of date, dead and buried with Simon himselfe. And if (as Chrysostome saith) the gift of giuing the Holy Ghost, was peculiar to the Apostles, so that not euen Philip baptizing, gaue the Holy Ghost withall; For this gift was proper onely to the twelue: and if Simony be sirnamed of Simon the Sire, and Simons Sinne was about the buying of the Holy Ghost: then that gift ceasing, and Simon being deceased, where is there left so much as the name of Simony, to lend a title to our intended Treatise? The Germanes haue very good Lawes to punish drunkennesse, but they find it very hard to define what drunkennesse is. So in England, we haue good Lawes to punish adultery, but wee find a great difficultie in conuincing any of committing the act of adultery. So it may bee said of Simony. First therefore let vs see what Simony is.

## CHAP. I.

Wherein Simony is defined, first, generally and largely, then more strictly and exactly.

For the Definition of Simony, briefly, we may reduce it to the Authoritie and Testimony of two especially: to wit, the Canonists and Schoolemen, who haue beene the most exact obseruers and Collectors of what hath been deliuered by the most learned Doctors of the Church from time to time touching the nature of this matter.
