---
reading: burton-simony
page: 10
pdf_page: 26
sortable_pagination_id: 26
---

holy to the Lord of the New Testament: And to vs there is but one Lord.

And tell mee, foolish selfe deceiving Simonist, whosoever thou art, tell me when and where Tythes ceased to be sacred? and if thou canst not tell, how darest thou call them Temporalls? But let me tell thee by the Word of the Lord, that Tythes are perpetually sacred. Search the Scriptures. Goe learne what that meaneth, Abraham gaue Melchifedech Tythe of all. If thou vnderstandest it not, aske the Apostle: and it is worth the consideration, For Consider (faith hee) how great this man was, unto whom euen the Patriark Abraham gaue Tythe of the Spoyls. Abraham, the Father of all the Faithfull, not of the Iewes onely, but of vs Gentiles also, paid Tythe of All. To whom? To Melchifedeck. And what was this Melchifedeck? Priest of the most high God, King of Righteousnesse, King of Salem: in all, a perfect Type of Christ our eternall high Priest, the Lord our righteousnesse, Prince of Peace. Did Abraham then the Father of the Faithfull, yes, the Type of Gods faithfull Church, in the Loynes of whose faith (as I may say) were all the faithfull, giue the Tythe of all to Melchifedeck, the true Type of Christ our eternall high Priest, and the Minister of a better Testament? and shall wee doubt to tread in the steps of faithfull Abraham, except wee will be Bastards and not Sonnes? And if the Apostle vse it as an Argument to proue Christs Priesthood more excellent then Aarons, inasmuch as euen Leui in the Loynes of Abraham paid Tythes to Melchifedech: How doe wee then vphold and maintaine this Prerogatiue of Christs Priesthood, while wee either deny or diminish his right of Tythes in the Ministry of the New Testament, Sith Aaron, who was farre inferiour, received Tythes in the Old; yes, rather, if the Leuiticall Priesthood, being inferiour, received Tythes: then the Euangelical, being superiour, much more. And why is Leui said in the Loynes of Abraham to haue paid Tythes to Melchifedech? but plainly to giue vs to vnderstand that this payment implied an acknowledgement of Christ their Soueraigne Lord and true high Priest,
