---
reading: burton-simony
page: 100
pdf_page: 116
sortable_pagination_id: 116
---

geth vpon it. One asked sometimes how it was, that in Athens, so goodly and great a Citie, there were no Physitians. To whom the answere was made, because there are no rewards appointed for them that practice physicke. The same answere may be made for our times; the cause why the Church of God is so forsaken, is the want of zeale to them, that should either for their courtesie, or for their habilitie, bee fosterers of learning, and increase the liuings, where occasion is, and giue hope and comfort to learned men. What said I? Increase? Nay the liuings and prouision, which heretofore were giuen to this vse, are taken away. Haue patience, if any such bee here (as I well know there are) whom these things touch. Suffer me to speake the truth, it is Gods cause. The liuings of such, as are in the Ministry, are not in their hands, to whom they are due. All other Laborers and Artificers haue their hyer increased double as much, as it was wont to bee: onely the poore man that laboureth and sweateth in the Vineyard of the Lord of hosts, hath his hire abridged and abated. I speake not of the Curates, but of the Parsonages and Vicarages, that is of the places, which are the Castles and Towers of fence for the Lords Temple. They seldome passe now adayes from the Patron, if hee bee no better then a Gentleman, but either for the Lease, or for present money. Such Merchants are broken into the Church of God, a great deale more intollerable, then were they, whom Christ whipped and chased out of the Temple. Thus they that should be carefull for Gods Church, that should be Patrons to prouide for the consciences of the people, and to place among them a learned Minister, who might bee able to preach the Word vnto them out of season, and in season, and to fulfill his Ministry, seeke their owne, and not that which is Iesus Christs. They serue not Iesus Christ, but their belly. And this is done not in one place, or in one Countrey, but throughout England. A Gentleman cannot keepe his house, vnlesse he haue a Parsonage or two in farme for his prouision.

O mercifull God, whereto will this grow at last? If the miserie, which this plague worketh, would reach but to one age, it were the more tolerable. But it will be a plague to the posteritie, it will be the decay and desolation of Gods Church. Young men, which are
