---
reading: burton-simony
page: 101
pdf_page: 117
sortable_pagination_id: 117
---

are toward, and learned, see this. They see, that hee which feedeth the flocke, hath least part of the milke: hee which goeth a warfare, hath not halfe his wages. Therefore they are wearie and discouraged, they change their studies, some become Prentises, some turne to Physicke, some to Law: all shun and flee the Ministerie. And besides the hinderance that thus groweth by wicked dealing of Patrons, by reason of the Impropriations, the Vicarages in many places, and in the properest Market townes, are so simple, that no man can liue vpon them, and therefore no man will take them. They were wont to say, Beneficia sine Cura, Benefices without charge: but now may bee said, Cura sine Beneficio, Charge or Cure without Benefice. Thus and much more to this purpose said that peerlesse *Iewell*. And he concludes with a graue Exhortation to her Maiestie, as followeth: *O that your Grace did behold the miserable disorder of Gods Church, or that you might foresee the calamities, which will follow. It is a part of your Kingdome and such a part, as is the principall prop and stay of the rest. I will say to your Maiestie, as Cyrillus sometimes said to the godly Emperours, Theodosius, and Valentinian, Ab ea, que erga Deum est, pietate, reipub. vestre status pendet: The good estate and welfare of your Common-weale hangeth vpon true godlinesse. You are our Gouernour, you are the Nurse of Gods Church. We must open this griefe before you. God knoweth if it may bee redressed, it is runne so farre. But if it may bee redressed, there is no other besides your Highnesse, that can redresse it. I hope I speake truely, that which I speake without flatterie, that God hath indued your Grace with such measure of learning and knowledge, as no other Christian Prince. He hath giuen you peace, happinesse, the loue, and the hearts of your Subiects. Oh, turne and imploy these to the glorie of God: that God may confirme in your Grace the thing, which he hath begun. To this end hath God placed Kings and Princes in their state, as Dauid saith, that they serue the Lord, that they may see, and cause others to see to the furniture of the Church. The good Emperour Iustinian cared for this as much, as for his life. Constantine, Theodosius, and Valentinian, and other godly Princes, called themselues Vassallos, the Sub-
