---
reading: burton-simony
page: 102
pdf_page: 118
sortable_pagination_id: 118
---

Subiects and Bond-seruants of God. They remembred that God furnished them in their houses, and were not vnmindfull to furnish his House.

To this purpose also a graue and learned now Prelate of this Church in his sermon at Paules Crosse, thus said: *Wee that are bred vp in learning, and destinated by our Parents to this end. We suffer our child-hood in the Grammar Schoole, which Augustine calls, Magnam tyrannidem, & graue malum, and compares it to the torments of Martyrdome; when wee come to the Vniuersitie, if we liue of the Colledge allowance, as Phalaris obiected to the Leontines,* παντων ενδεΐς, πλην λιμ κj φυσ4, *needy of all things, but hunger and feare; or if wee bee maintayned but partly by our Parents cost, doe expend in Vniuersitie maintenance, books and degrees, before wee come to any perfection, fiue hundred pounds, or a thousand markes; if by this price of the expence of our time, our bodies and spirits, our substance and patrimonies, wee cannot purchase those small rewards, which are ours by Law, and the right of inheritance, a poore Parsonage or a Vicarage of fiftie pounds, per annum, but we must pay to the Patron for the lease of a life (a spent and out-worne life) either in annuall pension, or aboue the rate of a Copy-hold, and that with the hazard and losse of our soules, by Simonie and Periurie, and the forfeiture of all our spirituall preferment in esse and posse, both present and to come: What father after awhile will be so improuident, to bring vp his sonne, to his great charge, to this necessarie beggerie? What Christian will be so irreligious, to bring vp his son in that course of life, which by all probabilitie and necessitie, Cogit ad turpia, inforcing to sinne, will intangle him in Simonie and Periurie?* whereas the Poet saith, Inuitatus ad haec aliquis de ponte negabit; A beggars brat taken from the bridge, where hee sits a begging, if he knew the inconuenience, had cause to refuse it. So he. Let me conclude it with the wordes of our *Democritus*: *This being thus, saith he, haue wee not fished faire all this while, that are initiated Diuines to finde no better fruits of our labour? Hoc est cur palles? cur quis non prandeat, hoc est? Doe wee macerate our selues for this? If this be all the respect, reward, and honour we shall haue, Frange leues calamos, & scinde Thalia libel-
