---
reading: burton-simony
page: 103
pdf_page: 119
sortable_pagination_id: 119
---

libellos; *Let vs giue ouer our bookes, and betake our selues to some other course of life. To what end shall we studie? Quid me literulas stulti docuere parentes? What did our parents meane, to make vs Schollers? to be as farre to seeke for preferment, after twentie yeeres studie, as we were at first? Why doe wee take such paines? Quid tantum insanis iuuat impallescere chartis? So he.* Honos alit Artes, *Honor and reward is the maintayner of Arts.* But the Ministerie is the Art of Artes. And that which God and Man hath appointed for the maintenance of the Ministerie, shall we call it the reward of a Minister? Alas: God helpe vs, if this were our reward, which at the most hath no correspondency to the worke of a Minister. For if wee haue sowne vnto you spirituall things, is it a great matter if wee reape your carnall things? yea, *Non magnum, sed minimum,* saith *Anselme*, *A very small matter.* But shall the worke of our Ministerie so infinitely exceede that, which in no proportion can bee reputed a reward: and yet can wee not haue this poore recompense of our labour, though not of our function, to sustaine our poore bodies and studies, but we must pay as deare for it, as he that neuer saw Schoole may pay for this, or any temporall commoditie? If so, then *frange leues calamos, & scinde Thalia libellos.* Away with learning, and consequently away with the Ministerie, yea farewell all good Ministers. For euery Minister should bee an honest man, and no honest man will be a corrupt Minister: and consequently, no honest Minister will be a Simonist: and doth not Simonie tend then to the vter abolition of the Ministerie? And what other Ministerie can be expected in a Church, where Simonie reigneth, then such as was vnder *Ieroboam*? to whom *Abiah* King of *Judah* said, *Haue yee not driuen away the Priests of the Lord, the sonnes of Aaron and the Leuites, & haue made you Priests like the people of other Countries? whosoeuer commeth to consecrate with a young Bullocke and seuen Rammes, the same may be a Priest.* So Simonie driueth away all good men, and admitteth into the Church those that bee corrupt, of the basest of the people. Master *Perkins* that Reuerend man of God alleageth this, as
