---
reading: burton-simony
page: 104
pdf_page: 120
sortable_pagination_id: 120
---

as one of the maine reasons of the rarenesse and scarsitie of good Ministers, namely, want of maintenance and preferment for men that labour in this Calling. And what difference is there (I pray you) betweene want of maintenance or preferment, and the buying and purchasing of them? For so, preferment becomes a recompence of my mony, not of my Ministerie. I will relate the wordes of that good man. *Men (saith he) are flesh and bloud, and in that respect must bee allured and wonne to imbrace this Vocation, by some Arguments which may perswade flesh and bloud. The world hath in all ages beene negligent therein, and therefore God in his Law, tooke such strict order for the maintenance of the Leuites: but especially now vnder the Gospell, this Calling is vnprouided for, when it deserues best of all to be rewarded; certainly (if Gods Law did not binde vs) it were a worthy Christian policy to propound good preferments to this Calling, that thereby men of the worthiest gifts might be won vnto it, and the want thereof is the cause, why so many young men, of speciall parts, and greatest hope, turne to other Vocations, and especially to the Lawes, wherein at this day the greatest part of the finest wits of our Kingdome are imployed; And why? But because they haue all the meanes to rise, whereas the Ministerie for the most part yeeldeth nothing, but a plaine way to beggerie. This is a great blemish in our Church; and surely I wish, the Papists, those children of this world were not wiser in their kinde (in this point) then the Church of God: the reformation hereof is a worke worthy the labour of a Prince and people; and speciall care is to be had in it, else it will not be reformed. For doubtlesse had not God himselfe in the Old Testament taken such strickt Orders for the liuings of the Leuites, they had beene put to no lesse extremities, then is the Ministerie of this age. And this reason added to the other makes them perfect, and all put together makes a reason infallible: For who will undergoe so vile contempt, and so great a charge for no reward? And where there is so great contempt, and so meane a reward, what maruell if a good Minister be one of a thousand?* So this holy man. By all which we may both see the miserie of the Ministerie of a Church, where not onely the one moitie of Church mainte-
