---
reading: burton-simony
page: 106
pdf_page: 122
sortable_pagination_id: 122
---

seldome or neuer so much as once looke backe towards their more homely home on the Playne, fearing belike the punishment of Lots wife, So eager they be with the wings of Ambition to flie to the highest Mount of preferment, as if there were no safetie but there: Those againe, lay out one to receiue three or foure at their returne: These, will give three for one, if they neuer returne. Whence, what mischiefe to the Church? What decay of Religion? What coldnesse of deuotion? What contempt of the sacred Calling? What scandall to the Gospell? What ignorance, the mother of Popish deuotion, indeede of all impietie and profanenesse, of all heresie and superstition? All threatning imminent and ineuitable danger (if it bee not the sooner preuented by a happy reformation) both to Church and Common-wealth. It were endlesse to muster vp all the mischiefes, which follow this one Generall, Simonie. A worthy Minister once of this Church, said: *A Simonist is a perpetuall care-boared bond-slave to his Patron. Hee hath no warrant to teach the people, and commonly lesse successe. Whereas if a man be sent of God to gouerne a people neuer so ignorant and fierce, God will put his hand betweene, and tame them.* According to that of the Prophet, Ierem. 23.32. *I sent not those Prophets, nor commanded them; therefore they shall not profite this people at all, saith the Lord.*

I will conclude therefore with two or three zealous and pithy Admonitions of Gregorie to this purpose, in his 64. Epistle to Queene Brunichilda; hee instantly exhorteth her to roote out of her Kingdome this heresie of Simonie, saying, *Prouidete anime vestrae, &c. Haue a care of your soule, haue a care of your posteritie, to whom you wish a happy raigne, haue a care of your Prouinces, and before our Creator put forth his hand to smite, bethinke you most carefully of the correction of this sinne.* And in his 51. Epistle to Virgilius Bishop of Arles, *Constat &c. It is reported that in the prouinces of France and Germanie, none is admitted to holy Orders, without giuing a bribe; if it be so, I speake it with teares, I denounce it with griefe, that the Priestly order being decayed inwardly, the out-ward
