---
reading: burton-simony
page: 107
pdf_page: 123
sortable_pagination_id: 123
---

ward state of it cannot stand. And Epist. 54. Hee exhorteth Theodorick the French King, to assemble a Synode, *Misse &c. That all euill conuersation of the Priests, and Simoniacall heresie, which first arose in the Church by impious ambition, may by the definitive Sentence of the Councell, backed with the censure of your authoritie, bee taken away, and rent vp by the rootes: Lest if gold be more set by, then God, Hee whose gentlenesse is now dispised in his precepts, may afterwards cause his wrath to be felt in revenge.* And Epist. 57. to Queene Brunichilda. *Synodum &c. Call a Synode, and amongst other things, carefully cause the heresie of Simonie to be abandoned out of your Kingdome. For beleeue mee, as wee haue learned by manifold experience, That is to bee reckoned among our losses, whatsoeuer is gayned by sinne. If therefore you would bee defrauded of nothing vniustly, bee carefull to possesse nothing vniustly. For in earthly things alwayes the cause of damage is originally from sinne. If therefore you would out-strip your aduerse Nations, if by Gods assistance you desire the conquest of them, entertaine with reuerence the Commandements of the same Almightie Lord, that hee may vouchsafe to fight for you against your foes, who hath in his holy Oracle promised, saying, The Lord shall fight for you, and you shall hold your peace.* So this last good Bishop of Rome. Now the Almightie Lord God, give grace to this Church and Common-wealth, that for the still flourishing of his glorious Gospell amongst vs, the good of our soules, the welfare of our estates, the settling of our peace, the securing of our posteritie, and the subduing of all our enemies, there may be stirred vp in vs all a godly care and conscience, to ioyne hearts and hands together, to the vtter extirpation (if possible) of this mother sinne of Simonie.

### CHAP. XVI.

### Of the cutting off, or curing of Simonie.

Although, when the Article of Simonie (among other enormities) came to bee considered of in the
