---
reading: burton-simony
page: 11
pdf_page: 27
sortable_pagination_id: 27
---

as in whose onely title and right they also receiued Tythes. Hence is it, that all the Leuites paid the tenth of their Tenths to Aaron the high Priest, and to his Successors; Hee being also a* Type of Christ, Let euen the spirit of contradiction it selfe, but note how frequently and how effectually the Apostle presseth the right of Tythes resident in Christ, as a notable proofe of the eternitie of his Priesthood. For in the seuenth Chapter to the Hebrewes, the Apostle mentioneth this argument of Tythes no lesse then six or seuen times; as, Verse 2.4,5,6,8,9. Hee therefore that denieth Tythes to bee due to Christ in the Ministry of the New Testament: what doth he else but deny the eternitie of Christs Priesthood, the ministration wherof must continue till time shall be nomore. Yea, he must also deny, that Melchifedeck was a true type of Christ, by vertue of receiuing tythes: if now Tythes bee not really due to Christ in the New Testament, as they were typically prefigured in the Old.

Againe, when began Tythes first to be paid? Was it not so long before the Law was giuen, or the Leuites borne? Could the Leuiticall Law then disannull the nature of Tythes, that they should not for euer continue sacred, being before the Law consecrated in Act by our Father Abraham, the Type of Christs Church, vnto Melchifedech the Type of our eternall high Priest Christ Iesus? * Decimas Deo, & Sacerdotibus Dei dandas Abraham factis, & Iacob promissis insinuat; & omnes Sancti Doctores commemorant, That Tythes are to bee given to God, and to the Priests of God, both Abraham by fact, and Iacob by vow doth insinuate: and all holy Doctors doe avouch it. Admonemus vel præcipimus, vt Decima de omnibus Dari non negligatur quia Deus ipse sibi Dari constituit, &c. Wee admonish and command that the tenth of all things be not neglected to bee paid, because God himselfe hath ordained it to bee given to himselfe. And the perpetuitie of Christs Priesthood is proued by Tything, as Heb.7.8. There hee receiueth Tythes, of whom it is witnessed that hee liueth. Or let the Simonist goe learne what that meaneth, Euen so hath
