---
reading: burton-simony
page: 110
pdf_page: 126
sortable_pagination_id: 126
---

but for euer after deprived, and disabled of being capable of any presentatiue power. And this stands with good reason and equitie, seeing the sinne of the Seller (except the condition of his person may somewhat extenuate it, in comparison of the buyer, if he be sacred) is not inferiour to that of the buyer. For as Gelasius saith, *Dantes pariter & accipientem damnatio Simonis inuoluit*: The giuer, together with the receiuer is inuolued in the same damnation of Simon. And the buyer (we know) the Relatiue peccant is by ancient Canons depriued and dispossessed of all spirituall promotion, and Ministeriall function, both for the present and the future. And if either shall be found periured, let them vndergoe the penaltie of Periury. Paulus Venetus p. 2. to restraine the sinne of Simonie saith: *Cum detestabile Scelus Simoniaca prauitatis tam Diuinorum, quam Sacrorum Canonum authoritas, abhorreat atque damnet: nos considerantes, quod plures pœnarum grauitas, quam Dei Timor arcere solet a voluntate peccandi, ac summis desiderijs affectantes, ut horum pestiferum vitium non ex vsu solum, sed etiam mentibus hominum, saltem propter pœnarum metum penitus euellatur, &c.* Seeing the authoritie, as well of diuine, as sacred Canons, doth abhor and condemne the detestable sinne of Simoniacall prauitie: wee considering that the greatnesse of punishments, is commonly of more force to restraine most men from pronenesse vnto sinne, then the feare of God; and earnestly desiring, that the pestiferous vice of these men, at least for the feare of penalties, may bee altogether rooted out, not onely from the vse, but also from the mindes of men, &c. Hee includes and inuolues all, of what degree or dignitie soeuer, whether Ciuill or Ecclesiasticall, giuers or receiuers, principalls or accessaries, in the same penaltie of Simonie, and that is, suspension from the execution of their place and function, and excommunication, not to bee absolved, but by the Pope himselfe, except in the very point of death. *Extran. cons. li. 3. de Simonia.*

And here let mee craue leaue to relate a passage in the Councell of *Trent* concerning this purpose: which whether it may bee thought a good rule and law to vs, for the better
