---
reading: burton-simony
page: 113
pdf_page: 129
sortable_pagination_id: 129
---

Yet after all these wayes, which haply may proue either irksome to him, that hath not gone them before, as for the Patron to be put to the Oath or wearisome, to make them passable; there is a shorter cut (I confesse) to a more speedy reformation, but that it is very hard to hit vpon. It cannot better be described, then by setting downe an example or two of those that haue gone this way. And heere wee haue a noble Precedent in the Emperor, Henry the Fourth. It is recorded by the late reuerend Bishop of Winchester, in his Booke of Christian subiection, and Antichristian rebellion, the third part, and taken out of Lamberti Scafn. in An. 1075. that this Henry the Fourth, in the vacancie of the Abby of Fuld, being sollicited very ambitiously by sundry Monkes and Friars, competitors for the place, on the sudden, as led by a diuine spirit, chose one Ruzelin, a good honest poore Monke, that dreamt of no such matter. The like also this Emperour did vpon the vacancie of the Abby of Loressan.

For conclusion, it were to bee wished, that, for the more carefull cure of this cursed cankered sinne, all, not onely profest Recusants, but Church-Papists, such as will come to the Church but once a moneth at most, may bee by Act actually and potentially depriued & dispossessed of all presentatiue power whatsoeuer, in disposing of any Church-liuing: And that for the better discouery, euery Patron presenting, shall presently take oath, not onely of Allegiance, but of Supremacie, this being the Lidius Lapis, or touchstone to discerne a true Christian, from a counterfeit Catholike, and a good Patron, from a craftie Romish Latron. For can the flocke bee in safetie, when the dog is of the wolfes prouiding? And will not such a wolfe, bee sure to prouide such a dog, as the Holy Ghost speaketh of by his Prophet (Esa.56.10,11.) either some dumbe dog, or lazie and sleepy mungrell, or ranging spaniell, or rauenous hound? Such as are muzzled, either ignorant, and cannot; or can, and will not; or would, but dare not barke at sinne and sinners? Or whose mangie manners are enough to infect
