---
reading: burton-simony
page: 114
pdf_page: 130
sortable_pagination_id: 130
---

fect his whole flocke? or whose rangeing Non-residence, giues the wolfe leaue to prey the more securely? or whose rapatious and rauenous auarice deuoureth no lesse, then doth the wolfe? or in one word, all of these, of necessitie some grand Simoniacke, so deepely drenched and bemudded with Simonie, that he is for euer after (so vnspongiable is this pitchy sinne) both a laughing stocke to the wolfe, and a stumbling blocke to his owne flocke. For a Simonist he must needs bee, and that some vnlettered Capito, whom Popish Patrons amongst vs preferre to their Benefices, accounting such money well got, which they bestow in *tam pios vsus*, vpon such pious vses, as the maintenance of their Masse-Priests. So that by this meanes the wolfe must bee maintained by the Simoniacall Pastor.

### The Corollary: directed especially to all Lay-Patrons, and Lay-Purchasers of the Sacred Portion.

Now before I shut vp my little Treatise, I intreate all Lay-persons, especially Patrons of Benefices, and also all such Fathers, as make no difference betweene the purchase of a Benefice, and of a Farme, to leaue as a portion for their children: that they would patiently peruse, and wisely weigh these few lines; which, as they proceed from a heart inflamed with the zeale of Gods glory, of the propagation of his Church, and of the Soule-saluation of all those whom it especially concerneth: So I desire they may be affectuously imbraced, and effectually followed of all. For, sith I speake vnto wise men, let me speake the more freely in few words; but they are the words of our Lord Iesus Christ: *What shall it profit a man, if he win the whole world, and lose his owne soule?* Hereby the Lord implies, that a mans soule is infinitely of more value, then the whole world. Now if it be so in the whole, what is it in euery little part? What shall it profit a man, if
