---
reading: burton-simony
page: 115
pdf_page: 131
sortable_pagination_id: 131
---

if he winne a little piece of the world, and lose his owne soule? What gained Esau, for selling his birthright, and typically his soule, for a messe of broth? or Achan, for a wedge of gold? or Iudas, for selling both his soule and his Sauiour for thirtie pence? or Gibezi, for selling his Masters gift for two talents? or Ananias and Saphira, for detaining what was vowed and consecrate? Now God is the same iealous God still, that hee was from the beginning. And the Apostle saith concerning sacrilegious persons; *Be not deceiued, God is not mocked; for what soeuer a man soweth, the same shall bee also reaped.* But wherefore all this? First, this concerneth all Patrons to looke vnto it; such as account it no lesse lawfull to sell a Benefice, or to vsurpe by strong hand, or cunning, either the whole, or a part, to his owne proper improper vse, then to sell his horse, or house.

Now to all Patrons is my speech chiefly addressed. The Benefices in your Patronage, are but a gage committed to you of trust. And it is no small trust. The soules of Gods people are ingaged in it. Your first and chiefe care should be to make choice of a worthy Minister; next, to collate it on him freely, without either exacting, or expecting of him lesse or more. Much lesse should you set a rate vpon it, or make portsale of it to him that will giue most; or to reserue your owne Tithes, or the glebe, or such a portion to maintaine your house with bread-corne, or drinke-corne, or some other commodities. The Eagle snatching the sacrifice from the Altar, carried withall a coale that claue vnto it, which proued enough to set her nest, and selfe on fire. O looke vnto it, if euer you looke for Gods blessing vpon you, and your posteritie. Gibezies curse was fearefull, it claue also to his posteritie. How many such Merchants haue beene outed of all, if wee did but obserue the examples? Nor is it sufficient that you shake your owne hands from Simonie, but see that your family, your wife, your sonne, or daughter, or seruant, bee free from it. In vaine did Pilate wash his hands, from the guilt of that innocent bloud of the Lambe of God, while he suffered himselfe to be
