---
reading: burton-simony
page: 116
pdf_page: 132
sortable_pagination_id: 132
---

be ouercome with the malicious importunities of those murtherous Iewes, himselfe passing the sentence, though it were perhaps as much against his will, as against his conscience. When you bestow a Benefice at the earnest suit of any of yours, when you cannot bee ignorant of some base corruption, you giue your consent to the betraying of the lambes of Christ into the wolfes power. And where doth Simonie begin, but at this source? At this gate is let in some Alphabeticall homebred Pedant, the verie fry of Simonie. Such a one will bee content to change his Ferula, for a broken shortned Sheep-hook, and to accept, not what the Church may challenge, but what the Patron will leaue, and perhaps will cite authoritie out of the Grammer Schoole for it, if he haue so much Grecke, πλεον ημισυ παντος. *Dimidium plus toto.* Halfe a loafe is better then no bread, nay then a whole loafe which hee cannot come by. For it cannot bee, that an ingenuous Schollar, of liberall education, will euer seeke to enter into Christs fold, vpon any base and vnworthy termes. If there bee any Simoniacall Ministers in the Church (as I charitably hope there may be none) that goe about to purchase dignities, it is most probable they learned first to chafer in this market. O shut your gates against such pedling Merchants. The way to keepe the coasts cleere, is for you to be no lesse carefull in prouiding a worthy Incumbent before-hand, then the illiterate Pedant is watchfull to catch the preferment before it fall. But your giuing way to such, opens a wide gate to euerie Farmer, teaching him by this meanes to prouide a sufficient maintenance, perhaps for the most vntowardly, and most deformed of all his sonnes, by laying out his money for the next vacancie, which lay in your power to preuent. Haply you will say, You bought the perpetuall Presentation or Patronage at a great rate; or, if not your selfe, your father or predecessors. If your predecessors bought, & left it freely to you, you may the more freely bestow it. If you bought it for your mony, and not with a purpose to bestow it freely for the glory of God, & good of his Church; but to make a gaine of it, your sin is so much the greater, & not to be
