---
reading: burton-simony
page: 117
pdf_page: 133
sortable_pagination_id: 133
---

be pardoned, without speedie and heartie repentance, nor that repentance euer true, or pleasing to God, vnlesse you bestow euen that you deerly bought, both freely, and worthily. You sinned in the buying of it, with respect to gaine: but your sinne is doubled, and *sealed vp in a bag*, if you sell it againe. Therefore in the feare of God take heed to your selues. The Liuing is Gods, not yours. You keepe it but in trust. Discharge your trust faithfully. So, God will reward it. Otherwise, he will require it.

And you Fathers, let mee vse a word of aduice to you. You desire to leaue your children portions for this life. I commend it. For *hee that doth not prouide for his family, hath denied the faith, and is worse then an Infidel.* But let your prouision (as I say) be honest. *Prouide honest things aforehand*, saith the Apostle, and that honestly. First, let your monies bee lawfully gotten. Next, if you will disburse a piece of money for the setling of your sonnes Patrimonie, bestow it, where you may lawfully. Take heed of purchasing that, which is Gods owne Patrimonie, Gods Tithes, or a Benefice. Much lesse, for one of your most vnlikely sonnes, for him, that you know not, or rather may suspect whether hee will proue Schollar, or no; or if Schollar sufficient, whether an honest man; or if both, whether he may bee fit for that holy calling, apt to teach, wise and faithfull to goe in and out before Gods people, family, and flocke. *Who is a faithfull steward and wise, whom his Master may set ouer his family, to giue them their portion in due season?* For, *who is sufficient for these things*, saith the Apostle? Take heed, least while you seeke to purchase your sonne a fathers blessing, you procure vnto him an ineuitable, an inheritable curse. Besides, though you are the principall Simonist in the purchase, yet hee is the accessarie, in one degree, or other; either hee knowes, or suspects at least, and that strongly, that he comes in by purchase, and so by an implicite faith hee becomes a periured Simonist. But if you will needs make your sonne a Minister, let him bee one of the best and towardliest; and if you will needs purchase for him, let it be of
