---
reading: burton-simony
page: 118
pdf_page: 134
sortable_pagination_id: 134
---

of such things as are common merchandise, not Gods inheritance. Tithes are Sacred, not to bee bought and sold, no more then the Cure of Soules, or the Calling of the Ministrie, vpon which Tithes attend, as their ordinarie maintenance. Meddle not you with that, for feare of Christs whip. Hee cannot indure buiers and sellers in his Temple. And doth it not stand with good reason, why Lai-men should not meddle with purchasing of Benefices, sith you haue by a strict Law prouided, that Ministers shall not meddle in purchasing your Farmes? And shall not Gods Law be as powerfull to restraine you from laying profane hands vpon that which is sanctified: as mans Lawes are to inhibite Ministers to purchase a poore Lease of a Farme or Tenement? Nay rather let Gods Law stand for euer inuiolable, and consider with your selues, how reasonable your owne Law is, that vpon any termes, without any expresse limitation, prohibits to a Minister the laying out of a little money (if perhaps hee haue it) vpon a poore Lease, that may be at least some staie for his poore wife and children, when hee is gone. Haply the first hint of this Law, was some abuse. If so, as Saint Hierome said vpon the like purpose, I am not so sorry for the Law, as for the occasion of it. Yet if some men abuse wine, you doe not presently make a law to forbid all men to drinke any wine at all. But the way is to make a law against drunkennesse: If wee could as readily define what drunkennesse is, as wee are sharpe sighted to condemne a Minister for base couetousnesse, in case hee had a Farme in possession. Indeed, if a Minister should turne Farmer, and Negotiator, relinquishing, or neglecting his calling, let the Law forbid that in any case, For as Saint Hierome saith, Negotiatorem Clericum, ex inopi diuitem, ex ignobili gloriosum, quasi quandam pestem fuge. This were for Ministers to turne Impropriators (the worst of all other) to impropriate their Sacred Calling, by bemudding their hands, but more, their mindes, by leauing to bee the Lordes husband-men, to become the worlds drudges. But howsoeuer, remoue the abuse by law, and that euen of the
