---
reading: burton-simony
page: 119
pdf_page: 135
sortable_pagination_id: 135
---

the Medes and Persians, that altereth not. In the meane while bee pleased to take into your consideration, what equalitie there is (and consequently, what equitie) between your restraining Ministers from the lawfull purchase of your Farmes, and your vnlimitted purchasing of our proper Free-holds, the purchase whereof howsoeuer Humane Law makes it currant, yet Diuine Law hath proclaimed the contrarie. Besides, if Gods Law were silent, or of no force, yet herein humane and carnall reason might sway you. For consider, I pray you, & consult but with flesh and bloud; in restraining Ministers from that libertie, what doe you, but bring an old house vpon your owne heads? For doe not Ministers come out of your loines? Doe you not make interchangeable & reciprocal marriages with them? (except where any of the Lay-tribe (as too many there be) doe disdaine to match with a Priest, as they terme vs) Are not their children your grand-children, doe not their sons match with your daughters, and their daughters with your sonnes? We are not, as once the Leuites, a Tribe so select, and so separate from the rest of our brethren, but that in all naturall respects we communicate with you. We that are now Ministers, were once (if you remember) your sonnes. And your sonnes may be (if you consider) Ministers as we. To whom then doe you denie this libertie? Is it not to your owne sonnes and daughters, and grand children? Euen to your owne flesh and bloud? Say, a Minister, your sonne-in-law dieth poore, leauing a poore widow, and so many small helplesse orphanes behind him; is she not now your daughter still, and are not her babes your grand-children, flesh of your flesh, and bone of your bone? Well; you that cannot bee content to giue Ministers libertie so much as to purchase a Farme, if they bee able in their life time (& haply they were able; had money; but for want of such occasion to lay it out, spent it, now it is gone; and no signe of it, but perhaps a few bookes, which now at the Booke-binders rate will not purchase the fourth part of a Farme) yet no doubt (such are the bowells of naturall loue, yea
