---
reading: burton-simony
page: 12
pdf_page: 28
sortable_pagination_id: 28
---

hath the Lord ordained, that they which preach the Gospel, should liue of the Gospel. Who seeth not, that the Apostle there, doth paralell the Leuiticall maintenance, and the Lords Ordinance, the Altar, and the Gospel together. And doth not the Apostle there challenge to himselfe a power in such maintenance, as well as others? Marke; power. And whence, but from the Lords Ordinance? And where appeareth the generall practise of this Ordinance, but in the Leuiticall Maintenance? And where hath this Maintenance the first foundation and institution (besides the Creation) but in Christ, figured in Melchifedech, who receiued Tythes of Abraham, the father and figure of all the faithfull, the Church of God? And shall not Tythes then be for euer sacred? And if sacred, is not hee a prophane Simonist, that offereth to buy them? Yea moreouer, are not the Ministers of the Gospel called the sonnes of Leui? Mal. 3. 3. The text is pregnant, and plaine, and Interpreters subscribe to the truth of it. Christ was to refine the sonnes of Leui, that they might offer to the Lord in righteousnesse; that is, his Apostles and Disciples of the Gospel. These are called the sonnes of Leui, because they succeed Leui, in the Ministry. And if wee be Leuies sonnes, who shall deny vs Leuies inheritance; seeing wee are Leuites to the same Lord, the perpetuitie of whose Priesthood, the paiment of Tithes to his Leuites are a pregnant argument of. And if yee deny him Tithes, you must of necessity deny him the Priesthood too, & so with the Iewes conspire to kill him, that the inheritance may be yours. Yea, we are Leuies sonnes refined and purged from the refuse of Legal Types and Ceremonies: & shall our Tythes be lesse sacred! Obiect. But some will say: Wee haue no expresse Precept in the Gospel for paying of Tythes. I answere, There are demonstrations enow, and those most strong. But what needs any expresse Precept? The Precept is expresse enough in the Law. He that is more seene in the Law, then in the Gospel, and stands more vpon Antiquities, then Verities; If the God of this world had not blinded his eyes, might acknowledge the antiquitie of this Precept in the Law to be
