---
reading: burton-simony
page: 120
pdf_page: 136
sortable_pagination_id: 136
---

yea and compassion in you, that you will not denie your daughter and grand-children, harbor and maintenance, in this their distressed calamitie. But now if you find a yearning in your bowels, vpon better reason to repeale this law, then haply whereon it was first grounded: yet for all that, you must not thinke to claime the like libertie in purchasing Gods owne patrimonie, which is holy. Your doing Gods Ministers right and reason, giues you no warrant or priuiledge to wrong God. Doe God right, and deny his Ministers, your owne bowells, no reason. But this by the way, to show that in no case sacred Tithes are to be bought and sold.

No? In no case? Yes, in some case. There is a way of purchasing the sacred Tithes, which would be both acceptable to God, profitable to his Church, and comfortable to the soule and conscience of the purchaser himselfe. How is that? But alas! where shall wee find one Purchaser? Yet wee are not altogether hopelesse. There be verie many charitable and well disposed Christian men and women in this our Church, whom God hath inabled as well with a large hand, as a gracious heart, to leaue goodly Legacies to charitable vses, as Hospitalls, and the like: and no doubt more would bee, if they could find Executors or Feoffees in trust, who could but liue to see the will of the bequeather duly executed. Now to all such well disposed Christians, that desire to make them friends of the vnrighteous mammon, and to lay vp in store for themselues a good foundation for the time to come, that they may inherit eternall life: to such let me addresse my speech. How many haue money to lay out vpon land, or so, and cannot light of a fit purchase? I wil be your intelligencer to discouer vnto you a faire purchase, so faire, as I cannot but maruell, that neuer yet any hath traded in it. Shall I tell you? The purchase of Tithes. Why, that is no newes. They are bought and sold euerie where. But I meane here the purchase of Tithes impropriate. These also are commonly bought and sold. But I meane, the purchasing of them, and redeeming of them, to
