---
reading: burton-simony
page: 121
pdf_page: 137
sortable_pagination_id: 137
---

restore them to God againe, for the maintenance of his Ministrie. O noble purchase! so rare as vnheard of. A worthy obiect, indeed, for euerie rich good man to pitch the eye of his charitie vpon, a worthy subiect to deale in. Would yee erect a new Hospitall? Saue your labour. You haue all readie at your hand in an impropriate Parsonage; both house, and demaines. Plant your hospitall there. A hospitall not onely for poore bodies, but for poore soules too; poore starued soules. For a Parsonage being rightily vsed, is a verie hospitall for the poore, in both these kindes. O, lay out your money heere. Christ made one invaluable and incomparable purchase, redeeming our soules with his most precious blood. That is indeed without parallell. All the merits of Saint Francis, or Saint Dominicke, wherewith the golden Legend is stuffed, or the vertue of our Ladies Milke, as they call it, are not to bee compared vnto That. But if any purchase may bee named after That, in any relation, surely this purchase, of all other is neerest a kin vnto it; not by way of merit, in no sort that; for it cost more to redeeme their soules, but by way of meanes to saue mens soules. To purchase an Impropriation, and to restore it to the Church, whose it is, and where it ought to bee, is to purchase the meanes of sauing so many soules, which for lacke of that meanes doe perish. For where the maintenance faileth, the Ministrie faileth (for Ministers are men, and cannot liue by the aire) and consequently the people perisheth, for whom Christ dyed. O then, you Christian hearted ones, whom the Lord hath blessed with abundance, make your purchase heere. O, how happie you, that thus may bee the Instruments of sauing so many poore soules, by pulling them out of the fire, as Iude speaketh! But you will say, How shall this bee done? I will tell you, doe but entertaine
