---
reading: burton-simony
page: 122
pdf_page: 138
sortable_pagination_id: 138
---

certaine such a purpose in your heart, and God that put it in your heart to will, will also direct and enable you to doe it, of his good pleasure. The readie way is, as one saith, Sapere aude, Incipe, &c. Resolue to bee wise betime; begin. Hee that delates the time of doing good, is as hee that obserues the Riuer, while it runne all out. Men vse to put off their doing of good vntill their death. A dangerous aduenture. For either they may bee preuented by vntimely death vnexpected: or after death, their Will may either bee neglected by, or betweene the Executors, or made frustrate by some little flaw in the conueyance, if it bee no bigger, then haply some nimble Atturney may put in his little finger, or but looke through the narrow crany of it, be it no wider then the space of one word, or one small letter. But this commonly happeneth vnto such Legacies, as extend no farther then to temporall ends, as to bodilie reliefe. Although I could wish men would see it done in their life time. But this, which concerneth mens soules, would bee done now while wee liue. Wee need not distrust Gods prouidence, as fearing to lacke it our selues, ere wee die: no, wee may rather expect a greater blessing of God euen in this life. For as our Saviour saith, Hee that forsaketh house or land, for my sake, and for the Gospels, shall receive an hundred fold now in this life. Now the money wee part withall for such a purchase, is for Christs sake, and for the Gospells. But if you cannot come to see it performed in your life time; then consider vpon what assurance you may best trust it to bee done after your death. If I were either able or worthy to give aduice in this matter, I should thinke, that the Legacie, so to bee bestowed, were best to bee put into the hands of some Colledge in Cambridge, or Oxford, and they, both to lay out the money vpon the purchase,
