---
reading: burton-simony
page: 13
pdf_page: 29
sortable_pagination_id: 29
---

be so plaine, as it needs no further explication or reestabliment in the Gospel. The Tythe is the Lords, saith the Law. And doth not the Gospel ratifie the same, saying, Giue vnto God those things that are Gods? Is not this an expresse Precept. Indeed Christ and his Apostles being busie in founding a new Church, suspended the practice of receiuing Tythes, vntill the decrepite Synagogue of the Leuiticall Ordinance expired, and the finall obsequies thereof were fully ended. But they left abundant euidence in their Gospels, to euict the right of Tithes to Christs Ministers, in the succeeding ages of the Church.

To conclude this point, That Tythes and all Church maintenance (call it what you will) benefit, or Benefice, profits, or corporall goods, they are holy, and of a spirituall nature, because they are consecrate to a holy vse: I doe not say, that Res decimarum, the things whereof Tythes consist, are in their owne nature spirituall: but qua Decima, as they are Tythes, consecrate to a holy end, and vse, they put on a spirituall nature. For euen as the bread in the Sacrament before it bee consecrate, and sanctified by the word, it is common; but after the consecration, it becomes Sacramentall and spirituall bread (which is that change the ancient Fathers so vsually speake of, not that bastard substantiall change, which the Pontificians would falsly father vpon them) in which respect the Apostle calleth the Manna, and the water of the Rocke, in regard of their typicall signification, spirituall meate, and spirituall drinke: So those things whereof Tythes and all Church maintenance consist, in their owne nature, are temporall and common, but being dedicated to God to a holy vse and end, they are not to be holden any longer for temporall, but spirituall, I say in regard of their spirituall end and vse, for which they are consecrated. And what is the end and vse, of such consecrate things? Is it not for the maintenance of Christs Ministers? and are not they in their persons, in their profession, by calling spirituall? and of what nature then can their maintenance be, but Spirituall? For Omne nutritur a Simili, Spirituall
