---
reading: burton-simony
page: 132
pdf_page: 148
sortable_pagination_id: 148
---

Great Shepherd, collected by his Angels from the foure windes, Come yee blessed of my Father, inherit the Kingdome prepared for you from before the foundation of the world. O blessed recompence! As you freely called the blessed Ministers of Christ, inuiting them to come to their Ecclesiasticall or Leuiticall inheritance here in the Kingdome of Gods grace, prepared for them by Gods speciall appointment, and vnder God by your speciall care, as Gods Feoffees in trust: so then at that day, You that haue beene faithfull in a little, shall bee made Rulers ouer much, and enter into your Masters ioy. What shall I say more? Your vertues haue almost rapt mee with you into that third Heauen, where also I see other of your workes following you, and giuing full testimonie to what I haue said. And here I haue a new occasion to breake forth into a second Gratulation; where I must begin with you the worthy Knights and Gentlemen of the Lower House of Commons. For I heare that now of late you haue by one vnanimous Vote, for your parts, passed a Bill in your House, that Patrons also shall take the Oath of Simonie, in as large and ample manner as the Presentee doth. Here let mee also congratulate my owne happinesse, that my maine Petition and Desire is granted, before I could come to make it knowne vnto you. And blessed bee God, who hath put into your hearts this godly care. You haue begun it, and it is alreadie more then halfe done; nay, as good as altogether done. For you haue commended it to the Honorable Lords both Spirituall
