---
reading: burton-simony
page: 133
pdf_page: 149
sortable_pagination_id: 149
---

tuall and Temporall of the Vpper House. And is it not then as good as done? For comming to the Temporall Lords, their pure vn-simoned hands will easily subscribe: and doubt not then of the sacred hands of the Lords Spirituall; whom, if the matter laboured of some difficultie, you should finde as the Triarij, to redintegrate all. And what is wanting then, but (which is neuer wanting vnto you, and to the Church of God) the Kings Royall assent, which shall crowne this noble Act. From the influence of whose Spirit (no doubt, next vnder God) as from a most carefull Nursing-Father of Gods Church, this motion came first to bee inspired into you, as the will and affections receiue their prime direction from the Soueraigne Dictate of the intellectuall Power. And to make this good, mee thinkes, I see the very foot-steps of his Maiesties Spirit and ingenie leading you along vpon the ground of reason, and equitie. For, with what reason and equitie, shall hee that purchaseth, both be punished in purse, and pinched in conscience, by taking the Oath; and he that selleth, shall inioy his Chapmans pecuniarie mulct, as a reward of his owne equall, if not superiour, sinne, and his conscience called to no account for it. As if a Law were made to punish him that is robbed, and not the Thiefe; or to punish him that is oppressed by vsurie, and not the Oppressor. If any Recusant, though hee professe to bee the Kings Liege Subiect, yet refuse to take the Oath of Allegeance, who will sweare for him, that hee is, and will bee a loyall Subiect?
