---
reading: burton-simony
page: 14
pdf_page: 30
sortable_pagination_id: 30
---

rituall men, and spirituall meate: both of a like nature, both a like consecrated to God. So then Tythes, or Church liuings, comming within the Verge of the definition of Simony, as being not onely annexed vnto spirituall things, but spirituall things themselues: it followeth necessarily, that to buy or sell such spirituall things, is Simonie. The definition then of the Schoole-men and Canonists formerly cited, stands firme and good, having all the termes and parts of a perfect definition, according to the rules of Logicke: which in briefe may be reduced to a syllogisme thus: Emptio vel venditio rei spiritualis est simonia: sed decima sunt res spirituales: ergo emptio vel venditio decimarum est simonia. Emptio & venditio, is the Genus: Simonia, is the Species: and res Spiritualis, is the Differentia. As Homo est animal rationale: is a perfect definition: having the Genus, the Species, and Differentia. Therefore according to the definition of Simonie, to buy or sell any spirituall thing, is Simonie. In which respect Iudas in selling Christ, is said to commit Simonie: Non solum plagium commisit, quod liberum hominem: sed & Simoniam, in eo quod rem sacram vendidit: Hee committed not onely the sinne of man-stealing, by selling a free-man: but also of Simonie, in selling a thing sacred or spirituall.

### CHAP. V.

Other euasions or starting holes stopped. Obiections answered.

But the Simonist hath yet another vsuall starting hole, whereinto he creeps, when he is pursued with the Hue and Cry of Simonie: hee confesseth indeed, because he cannot denie it, that Tithes are perpetually consecrate, and so, spirituall; and therefore to buy or sell them is Simonie: but hee sayth, hee buyeth not the Tithes; but either the Gleebe, or the Temporalls annexed to his Benefice, or Bishopricke. Well, to answere this, we will not take the benefit and aduantage of
