---
reading: burton-simony
page: 15
pdf_page: 31
sortable_pagination_id: 31
---

of the definition of Simonie, which includeth as well those things annexed to spirituall things, as the Spirituall things themselves; but wee say, that such Gleebe and such Temporalls are now Spiritualls, as Tithes be. Foras well the Free will offerings and Oblations, as the Tithes were called holy. If a man dedicate to the Lord any ground of his inheritance, the field shall be holy to the Lord, when it goeth out in the Iubile, as a field separate from common uses; the possession thereof shall be the Priests. Such Gleebs therefore and Lands commonly called Temporalls, are indeed not temporall, being once freely and solemnly given by vow of our noble Predecessors vnto the Lord, for the more honorable maintenance of his Church; but they are now spirituall, sanctified and separate from common vse, as Tithes bee, they are holy to the Lord. Therefore, as it is a snare to denoure that which is thus sanctified, and after such vowes to enquire: So the Simonist doth but intangle himselfe in a snare, as the Conny is in her owne Burrow, when hee makes this his starting hole; that so long as hee buyeth but the Temporall lands of the Church, hee commits no Simonie. Sed cominus res agatur. Simoniace, quid emisti? Glebam inquis, aut (te arbitro) Temporalia. Quanti emisti? Tantis. Agedum. Permittatur iam arbitrio calculorum, quantum inde sis lucratus, & num te negotiatorem satis prudentem cautumque præstiteris. Annui gleba tua reditus æstimantur forte 20. li. aut supra; ducentis vero, aut trecentis, aut quadringentis libris emisti. Na tu, hæreditatem tibi ac posteris, tandidem emere potuisses. Summa igitur, si computetur, huc recidit, quod hoc tuo mercimonio teipsum prodideris aut puerilem mercatorem, aut (quod magis suspicor) egregium veteratorem. Excute vero tuam tanta causa nimium indormientem conscientiam, & fatebere tandem, non te glebam tanti, nisi decimarum maior fuisset ratio, emisse. Vel sicut siquis domicilium charius emit, bonæ viciniæ gratia. Eadem prorsus ratio latifundiorum Episcopalium, vulgo Temporalium, habenda est. Emit quis, non Episcopatum, sed Temporalia, non quod sacrum est, sed quod seculare. Ista autem Temporalia partim ex latifundiy vtilitate, partim ex dominis dignitate æstimantur. Quanti autem constet
