---
reading: burton-simony
page: 16
pdf_page: 32
sortable_pagination_id: 32
---

constet Ecclesiasticus honor, mihi non constat. Nec quenquam arbitror φιλοδοξιαν seu φιλοτιμιαν præ se tantum laturum, vt dicas se honorem Ecclesiasticum emere. Si vero quod reliquum est Temporalium emat, viderit Emptor, ne quantum rem emptam pretium superat, tantum ipsum se honorem non neglexisse videatur. Nec quamquam existimo eo processurum audacia, ut dicat, tantundem esse, honorem Ecclesiasticum & ciuilem emere. Nihil addo amplius. Satis est quod hic noster mercator ex sua ipsius conscientia arquatur. Nec sibi cauere poterit, quin in istorum Scopulorum alterum, Directe, vel Indirecte, misere impingat. But let this suffice to haue showne, both by euidence of Holy Scriptures, and testimonies of Ecclesiasticke Doctors, and learned Diuines, that all buying and selling any Church preferments, vpon what pretence soeuer, is grosse Simonie, how finely and artificially soeuer conueyed.

### CHAP. VI.

Simonists conuicted by the vniuersall voyce of common Fame.

IF Gods Word were altogether silent in the Law of Tythes, leauing them as a thing indifferent to bee paid or not, according to mens fancies and wills; and that the Scriptures had consequently no show of arguments to conuince Simonists, as wee haue heard: yet euen the generall voyce of common fame (mee thinkes) should bee sufficient to cry downe Simonie, and to present it in the Spirituall Court, or to procure a Decree against it in the high Court of Conscience. And here before the Barre of this unpartiall Court, let mee by Writ Summon the Simonist to appeare. Thou hast bought some Benefice; or other Ecclesiasticall preferment in the Church, but hast so carried and conueied the matter, as the world cannot bee witnesse how much thou hast giuen: yet so, and so much thou hast giuen, as by some circumstance or other, generall notice is taken of it (for such corruption
