---
reading: burton-simony
page: 18
pdf_page: 34
sortable_pagination_id: 34
---

can giue no other reason of calling me a Simonist, but onely because Simon bought the gifts of the holy Ghost, and I onely buy the corporall commodities of the Church. Well, yet if there were no other respect, but this, how ought euery Minister especially to bee carefull of preseruing the credite of his holy calling and profession: As Saint Hierome writing, De vita Clericorum & Sacerdotum, saith. Caueto omnes, suspitiones, & quicquid probabiliter fingi potest, ne fingatur, ante deuita. Avoid all suspitions, and whatsoever may bee probably forged, preuent it first, that it may not bee forged. For as euery good Christian ought not onely to abhorre Adulterie and all vncleane Acts; but also to direct his conuersation so, as he may preserue his good name from the least suspition of lightnesse and dishonestie: so euerie good Minister of Christ should so much detest the sinne of Simon himselfe, as to decline whatsoeuer hath any similitude or affinitie therewith. Abstaine (saith the Apostle) from all appearance of euill.

And if there were no other reason to ground common fame vpon, but this, that merchandizing of Church-liuings is called Simonie, because Simons sinne in offering to buy the gifts of the holy Ghost, is truly called Simonie: it were euen proofe good enough. As Theopompus called a drunken murther, Cilicismus, of the barbarous manners of the Cilicians: and lasciuious lust, Canobismus, of the filthy Canobites.

So Iudas is called a Deuill, for being like him. Herod, a Fox, for his craft; The Church of Antichrist, a Whoore, for her whoorish conditions; and many a man is called a Simonist, for resembling Simon. As Saint Augustine marshalleth Simon, and all Ecclesiasticall Merchants in the same ranke together: Simon erat de talibus, qui in Templum intrant ad emendum & vendendum; Simon is one of those, that enter into the Temple, to buy and sell. In Ps. 130. And see what a similitude there is betweene Simon, and the Simonist. Simon would haue bought the gifts of the Holy Ghost, this man buyeth the goods of the Holy Ghost, which are the gifts of God
