---
reading: burton-simony
page: 19
pdf_page: 35
sortable_pagination_id: 35
---

God to his Ministers. Simon offered money, not so much for the gift, as for the gaine; this Man, not onely offereth, but giueth his mony, not perhaps for his Ordination, not for that most carefull Cure of Soules, not for that most watchfull and weightie (Angelorum humeris tremendum Onus) office of an Antistes: I dare say; what then? if neither, to make himselfe the more rich & honorable in the world, and consequently the more capable of a greater preferments all probable coniecture were at a stand. Blame not then euen the common vulgar, for calling thee a Simonist after the name of Simon, whom thou dost so neerely resemble in thy manners, and which thou hast so deerely purchased with thy monies.

Againe, They that haue but in a mediocritie attained the grounds of their Catechisme (whereof there are enow to make vp a common fame) are able thus to conclude against common Simonie. The Commandement saith, Thou shalt not Kill. Is therefore onely the Act of Murther here forbidden? Is not also the enuious, the back-biter, the hater of his brother, a Murtherer? Hee that hateth his brother is a Manslayer. The Commandement saith, Thou shalt not commit Adulterie; Is onely the Act forbidden? Is not also the affection? the lust? the looke? Hee that looketh on a woman, and lusteth after her, hath committed Adultery with her alreadie in his heart. Euen so, Thou shalt not commit Simonie: Therefore is only the buying and selling of the most proper gifts and graces of the Holy Ghost so hainous, as to deserue that odious name of Simonie: and shall not the buying and selling of Church preferments (being also the Holy Ghosts gifts, but of an inferiour nature) (that which Simon himselfe had most respect vnto, when he offered his money) deserue also the name of Simonie? And why should not the buying and selling of Church liuings be called Simonie: as well as a lustfull looke be called Adulterie? For he that vseth lustfull lookes, and wanton gestures, is not onely an Adulterer in his heart, but the likelier and neerer to commit it in the act: So he that will not sticke to buy a Benefice, bee it but an Aduowson,
