---
reading: burton-simony
page: 2
pdf_page: 18
sortable_pagination_id: 18
---

matter. For the Canonists, let Gratian speake, who saith, Simonia est studiosa cupiditas, vel voluntas emendi vel vendendi aliquid Spirituale : Simony, is an intentive desire, or purpose to buy or sell some spirituall thing. And in another place hee addeth, Simonia est, emere vel vendere res Corporales Ecclesiae. It is Simony to buy or sell the Corporall goods of the Church. For Schoolemen, let Thomas Aquinas speake, who succeeded about one hundred yeeres after Gratian, hee saith in effect the same : Simonia est studiosa voluntas emendi vel vendendi aliquid Spirituale vel Spirituali annexum. Simony is an earnest desire of buying or selling any spirituall thing, or that which is annexed to that which is Spirituall. On these two Definitions (in effect One) depends the whole Law of Simony, hauing the testimony of the whole Church from the Primitiue age thereof, till this present. Zanchius vsing the very same Definition concludeth, Sic definierunt Theologi. All Diuines and Doctors haue so defined it. And not without good reason: For in these two Definitions is concluded whatsoeuer may be said of Simony, whither wee respect the Obiect, or the Subiect of it; in the Obiect, whether wee vnderstand the Spirituall gifts, or Corporall goods of the Church. in the Subiect (I meane not the Subiect of Predication, as Logicians speake, but of Inherence) whither wee vnderstand the Affection onely, or the Action also; Be it Actual, or bee it onely Intentionall. All is Simony. As Gratian also saith, Simonia committitur & circa ordinem, & circa Beneficium; Simony is committed both in respect of Orders, and in respect of the Benefice it self. The Councel of Constance hath decreed the same, That Simony is as well committed in the Title, as in the Order. But hereunto Gratian puts an obiection : Non videntur Spiritus Sancti donum emere, qui non pro consecratione, sed pro electione munera largiuntur: cum nullius spiritualis gratia aliquos faciat electio participes: that is, They seeme not to buy the gift of the Holy Ghost, who bestow their rewards, not for the Consecration, but for the Election. But he addeth the answer: Sed sicut Ecclesiasticarum rerum emptores simoniaci iudicantur, quia Ecclesiasticis officijs ita adiuncti sunt, ut alterum sine alte-
