---
reading: burton-simony
page: 20
pdf_page: 36
sortable_pagination_id: 36
---

Aduowson, before hee haue taken some Orders, is hee not the likelier to buy his Orders too, especially being some rusticke Pedanticke, that so hee may enioy his former bargaine? For euerie one that buyeth a preferment of this nature, doth vndoubtedly preferre it before the honour of his Calling (for he that truely honoureth this holy Calling, is of that holy mind, as to despise all base meanes to aduance himselfe in this calling) and consequently will make small conscience to buy holy Orders, which hee accounts but as accessories, when as he hath made shipwrack of conscience alreadie in purchasing the profits, which he deemeth as the Principall. And vpon these reasons, not onely the Common fame of this our Church, and of the present time, but of the whole Catholike Church from time to time, is grounded. So that the verie same of it being so vniuersall, if there were no other reason, mee thinkes it should make any common Christian both ashamed, and afraid to oppose either his priuate opinion, or practise, against such a streame and cloud of witnesses.

### CHAP. VII.

Simonie demonstrated by our positiue Lawes, and by Ecclesiasticall Canons: and in fine, by the conuiction, and confession of the Simonist himselfe.

BEsides all the former conuictions, yea, euen without them all, the same Lawes which haue appointed and imposed the Oath of Simonie, may serue for sufficient and competent Iudges in the case of Simonie. And it stands with good reason, that the same Law which forbids and punisheth Simonie, should bee its owne Interpreter, what it meaneth by Simonie. And so, That is iustly censured for Simonie, which the Law understands to be Simonie. Now the words of the Statute shewing what Simony is, be these: And for the anoyding of Simonie and Corruptions in Presentations,
