---
reading: burton-simony
page: 24
pdf_page: 40
sortable_pagination_id: 40
---

how vnbeseeming the grauitie and modestie of a Priest, yea, the ingenuitie of any honest man, by cap and knee, by soothing and flattery, by often visiting and long attending the Court, when I should haue beene at my sheepe-coat, haue I at length attained to this reuerent Dignitie: Nay more, though the world perhaps know it not (as yet) my conscience failes not to charge me, what a Summe of money I haue and am to pay for it (that which my kindred and friends may one day rue, if the lease of my momentanie lent life be not all the longer) besides the faire and goodly liuings I haue parted withall into the bargaine: yet if this were all, it were the more tolerable. But alas? here is an Oath, a direfull, a dreadfull Oath (alas!) which I must take: I must, there is no euasion, no redemption, no baulking of it, I can no more escape it, then a dead man his winding sheet, and taking it vpon mee, it will bee worse then Deianira's inchanted shirt, sitting close to my conscience, and tormenting it with the fire of hell. This will be worse vnto mee then the ryding of the Cannon, for it will shake and shatter my soule and conscience all to pieces. How Should I then take this fearefull Oath, and so sinne against God, the Iudge: sinne against this sacred Assembly, the Grand Iury passing vpon mee? sinne against the Church? against my profession, which is sacred, against the dignitie of a Bishop, which is venerable; and lastly against my owne soule, the subiect of all this sinne, and the obiect of all those ineuitable iudgements of that iust God hanging ouer my head? And what shall it aduantage me, thus to win a Bishopricke, and lose mine owne soule? What aduantage? Nay what disadvantage will it bring vnto me? For what ioy or injoyment can I haue in my Bishoprick, when my conscience Shall be still dogging mee at the heeles, yea biting me at the heart, and vpbraiding me with Simonie & Periury: what honor shall the title of Lord be vnto me, when my Simonie and Periury (too manifest to the world) shal make me a table talke, a byword, a scornfull Parable in euery mans mouth, a contemptible obiect in every mans eyes? The Rotchet being an embleme of the pure linnen righteousnesse and innocencie of Saints, so often as I shall put it on, what doth it but put mee in minde to apply that saying to my selfe, being one of those false Apostles, who transforme my selfe into
