---
reading: burton-simony
page: 25
pdf_page: 41
sortable_pagination_id: 41
---

into the Apostle of Christ, as Satan is transformed into an Angel of Light? And what benefit shall my Bishopricke be vnto me, being so deerely bought, that I must lay the burthen of my Simonie, vpon my poore Clergie, racke my rents, sell my Presentations, keepe a miserable house, and all, and more then all these, to patch vp a poore bargaine, and to heape more burthens vpon my conscience, enduring more already, then I am able to beare? were it not much better for mee rather to forgoe Bishopricke and all, and to preuent all those matchlesse mischiefes, that depend and attend vpon the conditions of accepting it: then by going on, to plunge my soule into infinite calamities, and wrap my selfe in endlesse and remedilesse miseries? For that Oath, that Oath, O that fearefull Oath (alas) admitting no euasion, no mentall reseruation, no equiuocation; that Oath, being once taken, becomes a great gulfe for euer set between my conscience, & comfort, between my soule, and saluation, betweene mee and blisse: And what can I expect, but that my tongue, for being but an instrument in pronouncing this Oath, shall be tormented in a greater flame then that of poore Diues in hellfire? And then, and there, what shall it boote me to disclaime the name of Simonie, when I now suffer for it? or to say, I bought the benefit, and dignitie, not the Office of a Bishop, when now my false and foolish equiuocation is found out? when as my conscious Agents, and all that confederate crew, the Vsurer, the Scriuener, the Solicitor, and the like, shall vpbraid and accuse me, for being an accessary, yea, a principall occasion of their sin? For had not I beene so forward to giue, they had not participated with mee in my sin, and so not in my punishment; mine owne conscience neuer ceasing her hideous and hellish clamors vpon mee, tormenting mee for my desperate periurie, for my deepe hypocrisie, for playing the Chop-Church, which my punishment shall then tell me, is either Simonie, or some other crime worse then it, if worse can be imagined.

Now shall not these considerations moue such a man, yea, euen a Romish Simonist, to a timely preuention of Simoniacall periurie, or of becomming a periured Simoniack? And rather then desparately proceed to take the direfull Oath, bee content to remaine stript of all his other
