---
reading: burton-simony
page: 26
pdf_page: 42
sortable_pagination_id: 42
---

promotions, and bidding adue to Bishopricke and all, goe vow himselfe to a perpetuall monasticke life, there to doe penance, if it were onely for making such a bold attempt.

### CHAP. VIII.

Of the sixe euasions of the Simonist, whereby hee thinkes to elude the Oath.

BVt there is a new found Well, which may well bee called after that ancient Riuer Orcus (yet farre vnlike that ancient Beersheba) the Well of that Oath, betweene Abraham and Abimelech; it hauing sixe porches: which at a certaine time, being stirred by an Angell (called Legion) whatsoeuer diseased Ecclesiasticall person steppeth in first, and in stead of washing, taketh a draught of this Well (it springing from the Riuer Styx, by which, as Poets faine, the Gods drinking thereof were wont to sweare) hee passeth forth at any of these Ports or Porches a whole and sound man. The Morall is this: this Orcum, is the Oath of Simonie: the Angel, called Legion, is easily knowne by his name, what metall he is of: Hee that first steps in vpon the Angels motion, is the corrupt and diseased Simonist: This sicke and ill affected person taking a draught of this blacke Stygian water, the Oath of Simony passeth out at sixe Porches, by sixe euasions by himselfe inuented, perfectly cured (as he conceiueth) of two most desperate diseases; Simonie, and Periurie, and all other Symptomes of the same. Now all these sixe Porches, tend to make a cleere passage for one word in the Oath Simoniacall, wherein consists the whole power of the Oath.

First therefore, they plead Not-guiltie of Simonie, and so consequently, not of periury, because they buy onely the Temporalls. This, I touched before: But now I retort it vpon themselues. They buy the temporall Benefit, therefore it is Simoniacall. For euen Simon had a respect that way:
