---
reading: burton-simony
page: 27
pdf_page: 43
sortable_pagination_id: 43
---

way: Mercari vult, quod pluris reuendat, Hee would buy, to sell the dearer, saith Erasmus. So Augustine; Emere volebat, quod vendere disponebat. Caluin also confesseth the same temporall respect to bee Simoniacall. For to imitate Simon in any such respect, is sufficient to proue the Act Simoniacall.

Secondly not Simoniacall (say they) because they bargaine not with the Patron. Why? no more did Simon: for Peter was not the Patron of the Holy Ghost, but God; Peter prayed, and God gaue. But this shift is all one, as if the Chap-man should deny hee bought such a Merchants wares, because hee dealt onely with his Factor, and therefore no lawfull bargaine. Thy Solicitor in thy name and stead procureth it of the Patron, thou payest thy money to thy Solicitor. And wilt thou sweare thy purchase had no relation to thy Patron? Though I could cut off all thy reasons at one blow, with Phocion Axe, to wit, Directly, or Indirectly.

Thirdly, not Simoniacall (say they) because what they gaue, was but respectiuely to their Solicitors, for their paines imploied therein. But is not his paines valued according to the preferment, as it is more or lesse worth? as Clients fee their Lawyers, according to the value of their suit in hand? If so, is it not Simoniacal? But attendants must liue, either by their seruice, or by suits. So it hath beene the custome of the Court of Rome, that Simonie should goe vnder the name of Subsidiary or Eleemosynary pension, either for the Popes Courtiers, or Cofers; But farre be it from the Court of England. What befell Gehezi? call Simonie a gratuitie, or what plausible name you will, yet it altereth not his nature; no more then the calling and ranking Father Garnet among the Saints & Martyrs of the Church of Rome, wil alter him from a Traitor; or the painting of him among the Saints in Heauen, free him from the fire of Hell. And doth not such a gratuitie or almes, reflect vpon the Patron, as an implicite compact of Simonie, when the Patron respectiuely pleasures his seruant, and thy Solicitor, with the Collation
