---
reading: burton-simony
page: 28
pdf_page: 44
sortable_pagination_id: 44
---

on of such a liuing, by meanes whereof he holds his seruant well appaid and recompensed for his seruice?

Fourthly, not Simoniacall: for the preferment came not by purchase, but by wager, as it were casually, or by buying a horse, to pay for him so much at the day of marriage. But who seeth not this horse to interfer betweene Directly and Indirectly? who seeth not, that this Merchant laid, purposely to lose? But enough of such horse-play.

Fifthly, not Simoniacall, sith he had the fauor to obtaine, vnder an implicite Faith, without explicite or expresse conditions; to saue his Oath and honestie, Quippe qui non adeo sit plumbei tardique cerebri, vt foro vti nesciat, and as wee say, Doe reason. Verbum enim sapienti. O, for a Phocion, refusing Alexanders Presents (though sent him, because he was an honest man) and saying, εασατω με τουτον: Let him suffer mee to be an honest man still. Pauper Fabricius quartam a Pyrrho regni partem sibi oblatam recusanit, ne fidem suam Romanam temeraret. Poore Fabricius refused the fourth part of Pyrrhus his Kingdome offered him, least hee should dishonour his Roman fidelitie. But this Roman fidelitie was, in diebus illis, when Rome was heathen. And Damianus saith, Simoniaci sunt, non solum qui paciscuntur, sed etiam qui pecuniam non pactam postulant: more Gibezi, Simonists are they, not only that bargain, but also that require mony, not of compact: as Gibezi did. For the condition, be it implicite, or be it explicite, Simoniacall it is, directly, or indirectly. Yea, this is met withall in the conclusion of the Oath, which forbids to performe any contract made by another, though without thy knowledge: how much more should a man renonce all purpose to performe an implicite contract or condition, which his owne heart is conscious of, and priuy to?

Sixthly, not Simoniacall, because this was obtained before it fell, as it were in the nature of an Aduowson, by promise; which differeth from an Aduowson onely, as a word of mouth, from writing. And an Aduowson is no Simonie. For answere: first, promise and Aduowson in common estimate and practise, differ much; for promise is ex-
