---
reading: burton-simony
page: 29
pdf_page: 45
sortable_pagination_id: 45
---

presly excepted against in the Oath; otherwise, what needed there be any Simonie, when as promise might preuent it? For Aduowsons, I referre to a more proper place, yet this I will say by way of anticipation, that if buying of an Aduowson (it passing vnder hand and seale) bee no Simonie: what reason is there, why a contract made onely by word of Mouth, should bee accounted Simoniacall? Thus haue wee hunted the Simonist out of his six Meshes: and if hee haue or find any more, we will set him for him Directly, or Indirectly, which will be sure to catch this Foxe, and all his Cubs.

### CHAP. IX.

### Of the kindes of Simonists in generall.

Wee haue seene what a Simonist is: Now let vs see who, & of how many sorts they be. It was a wicked and impious decree of Pope Hildebrand, Gregory the seuenth, to draw all Kings and Princes, and Lay-persons into the ranke of Simonists, onely for presenting to Bishoprickes and Benefices, although they did it most freely and honestly. But the maine drift of this grand founder of Antichristian vsurpation ouer Christian Princes, was both to inrich his Coffers, and to fortifie his Papall See, by oblieging the whole Prelacie, and Clergie to his Pontificall Chaire. But all Simonists are either buyers or sellers. The common fame indeed runnes onely vpon the buyers, as if they onely were the Simonists: but if the buyer be one, the seller must needs be another, by the Law of Relatiues. Of sellers, Efau is reckoned for the first, who sold his Birth-right, and with it the Priesthood. For the birth-right had annexed vnto it Dominion; double portion, and the Priesthood. So that with his Birth-right selling the Priesthood, the most sacred Prerogatiue, hee is iustly called profane Efau.
