---
reading: burton-simony
page: 30
pdf_page: 46
sortable_pagination_id: 46
---

Obiect. Some here may obiect, that reciprocally lacob also in buying the Birthright, committed Simonie. But Lyra answereth well, Not so; for the Birthright belonging to lacob by Gods owne designement and donation (Gen.25.23.) Efau therefore hauing lost his right to it, by selling it, committed Simonie: whereas lacob, by buying that which by the best title was his owne alreadie, intended, Non emere rem Sacram, sed redimere vexationem suam, Onely to buy his owne peace.

Obiect. If lacob in so buying committed no Simonie, because he bought but his owne: then why may not a Minister buy, and yet commit no Simonie, sith Tithes doe as well appertaine to the Minister, as the Birthright did to lacob, both, by Gods donation. But the case is not alike. For, although Tithes are by Gods owne intitling tied and intailed to his Ministrie: yet this or that Minister hath no title to this or that Tythe, till hee be lawfully possessed and inuested in them. And when hee is so, if hee meete with a craftie or cruell Patron, a prophane Efan, who either fraudulently vsurpeth, or forceably detaineth any part of the Tithes, then may hee lawfully and laudably imitate lacobs wise Example, Non emere rem Sacram, iam suam, sed redimere vexationem suam. Yet, if there were any such well minded lacobs, Gods Ministers, that could and would redeeme Church goods to the true heire, they should draw vpon themselues a Blessing, and not a Curse. Although I confesse the Councell of Ments saith, Decimas, quas populus dare non vult, nisi quolibet munere ab eo redimantur, ab Episcopis prohibendum est, ne fiat. Those Tithes, which the people (or any Patron) will not pay, unlesse they bee redeemed of them by some reward, the Bishops ought to forbid such dealing.

But some say, It is not lawfull for a man to redeeme his Spirituall right, because it is Simonie. But I thinke few will bee so forward so to redeeme, as to need the Bishops prohibition. Or if they were, the mischiefe is, the Market is so raised, that a Messe of Broth will not serve the turne, to satisfy hungrie Efan. It is a pot, not of Red broth, but of precious
