---
reading: burton-simony
page: 31
pdf_page: 47
sortable_pagination_id: 47
---

cious Red earth, which all Edoms so much hunger after. Auri sacra fames! The time was once indeed, when our great Iacob, made a noble and gracions tender to the Church, to haue redeemed her patrimonie at easie and honourable conditions, if shee would, which had beene a most happy purchase.

Another Simoniacall seller was Gehezi, of some taken for the first Simonist in the Old Testament. Gehezi primo in veteri Testimento Simoniam inuenit. Hereupon all such sellers were wont to bee called Gehezites, as buyers, Simonists. But Simon hath obtained to beare the bell, and to carry the name away for both; sith the money so giuen and taken becomes Sin-money, bearing the image and superscription of Simon. Sinne stickes so ioyntly betweene these two, the Buyer and the Seller, as a naile betweene the toynts of the stones. And as Chrys. Qui emit & vendit, sine periurio esse non potest: Hee that buyeth and selleth, cannot bee without periury. Which might well bee applied indifferently to both, the Merchant and Chap-man in Simonie, if they did both indifferently take the Oath. Therefore our Lord whipped all out of the Temple, as well the Sellers, as Buyers; which Gregory applying to Simony, saith, Columbas vendere, est de Spiritu Sancto Commodum temporale percipere: To sell Doues, is to reape a temporall benefit of the Holy Ghost. Sellers therefore are as deepe in Simonie, as buyers.

It is the common error of many Patrons, to account the Benefices, within their Presentatiue power, as their goods and chattels, as a part and parcell of their Patrimonie; whether deuolued vpon them by inheritance, or purchased with their money; whereupon they resolve, that being their owne, they may doe with them as they list; Vendere sure potest, emerat ille prius; Hee sells, but that hee bought. Hence it is, that so many hunt after the purchase of Patronages; as being, in their estimate, none of the worst markets. But herein, such men miserably misdeeme the matter: at least if all be true, which the Canonists, and Schoolmen, yea and the ancient Fathers, haue deliuered touching these
