---
reading: burton-simony
page: 32
pdf_page: 48
sortable_pagination_id: 48
---

these things. For Aquinas saith, That right of Patronage cannot bee sold, nor giuen in fee, but passeth with the Village; which is sold, or set ouer. Gratian giues the reason; Because the right of Patronage is neither simply Temporall, nor Spirituall, a Lay-man may haue it: (to wit, Ius patronatum) and leave it to his heires: not Temporall, because it cannot bee sold. Saint Hierome to Damascus writing about a point, bordering vpon our present purpose, saith, Quia Beatitudo tua quaesiuit, vtrum vsus Decimarum & oblationum secularibus prouenire possit: nouit vestra sanctitas omnino non licere: Protestantibus hoc Diuinis Authoritatibus Paternorum Canonum. Because your Blessednesse demanded, whether the vse of Tithes and Oblations might bee deriued to Lay-men: your Holinesse may know, it is altogether vnlawfull. And diuine Authorities of ancient Councels auouching the same. Gratian addes the reason: Non licere: Hoc est certum, quod Ius Decimarum Laicus possidere non potest, cum sit Spirituale: This is certaine, that a Lay-man may not possesse the right of Tythes, seeing it is Spirituall. Distinguishing betweene the right of the patronage, and the right of the personage. And for this cause, De sola gratia, &c. Only of favour, not of meere lay-right or claime, the Ius Patronatus, or right of Patronage was conferred upon the Lay-founders, or Indowers, or Builders; according to that Verse,

Patronum faciunt Dos, Ædificatio, Fundus.

Gratian, saith moreover, Sunt autem tria, &c.: There bee three things which the Patron attaineth, Honour, Charge, and Profit: Honour in presenting: Charge or burthen in defending the Church from Dilapidations: Profit, because if hee fall into pouertie, the Church shall prouide for him; and that in a more ample manner and measure, then for other poore.

As also Concil. Tolet. 4. Can. 37. hath so prouided. Further, the ninth Toletan Councell hath decreed, Vt quamdiu, &c. That so long as the founders of Churches (as the Patrons) shall liue, they should haue a solicitous care of those places; so that Rectores idoneos in eisdem Basilicis ydem ipsi Episcopo efferant ordinandos.
