---
reading: burton-simony
page: 33
pdf_page: 49
sortable_pagination_id: 49
---

ces; therefore let them present fit Rectors or Parsons vnto the Bishop for the same Churches. Patrons then, hauing a power conferred vpon them by the Church to present and commend a person, not simply to bestow and collate the personage, this being a distinct thing from the right of Presentation; yea, though Presentation be called sometimes a Collation, yet this Collation is not Donation, because Donation is of free liberalitie, without compulsion; but Collation is ioyned with compulsion, when as the Collator must present within sixe moneths, else his power is then lost: Then Patrons haue no power to sell that, which (to speake simply) they haue no power to giue. Hereupon Aquinas saith: Any act is naturally euill, when it falleth upon an vndue subiect. Now a spirituall thing (saith hee) is an vndue subject of buying and selling; and that for these three reasons. First, because a spirituall thing cannot bee equalized, or made equiualent with any terrene price: Thy money perish with thee, because thou thinkest the gift of God may bee obtained with money; as it was said to Simon. Secondly, because that cannot be a due matter of sale, whereof the seller is not master or owner; As a Prelate of the Church is not Lord of spirituall things, but onely a dispenser or steward: 2.Cor.4. Thirdly, because selling is opposite to the originall propertie of spirituall things, which proceed of the free meere gift of God; freely yee haue received, freely giue: Talia ergo emere vel vendere est peccatum irreligiositatis: Therefore to buy or sell such things, is a sinne of irreligion. So he. Wherupon Zanchie: His rationibus Luce claris efficitur, Simoniam admitti non posse, sine maxima in spiritum Sanctum, ejusque dona, adeog, in res omnes spirituales iniuria, & irreuerentia; eog, Simoniam ad ἀσεβείαν pertinere: By these reasons (saith hee) it is made more cleere then the light, that Simonie cannot bee committed without exceeding great iniury, and irreverence towards the Holy Ghost and his gifts, and so towards all spirituall things. Therefore deuout Bernard to Pope Eugenius writeth thus, concerning placing of Priests in Benefices: Sunt quædam, &c. There bee some things, which either importunitie of suiters doth extort, or necessitie doth merit necessarily
