---
reading: burton-simony
page: 34
pdf_page: 50
sortable_pagination_id: 50
---

necessarily of vs; but it must bee in those things which are our owne: But where it is not lawfull for mee to doe as I would, what place is left for the suiter? vnlesse haply the suiter intreat this of mee, that what himselfe would haue, it may bee lawfull for mee to bee the more willing not to doe it. Espensæus saith: Sunt adulatores potius, quam Doctores, qui, &c. They bee rather flatterers then teachers, who teach that the Pope is Lord of all Benefices: and therefore seeing as Lord, hee doth by right sell that which is his owne, it necessarily followeth, that Simonie cannot be imputed to him. Belike the Holy Ghost, with his gifts are also his owne; were they not as well Peters? Yet if he had sold, he had beene a Simonist. Sed nemo potest retinere, quod vendidit; vt Iudas Christum: But no man can retaine that, which hee hath retaild: as Iudas selling Christ, lost Christ. Greg. Naz. Grat. We will conclude this with that of Saint Ambrose: Sunt quidem Decima Depositum seruorum Dei in Ecclesia seruata: Tithes are kept in the Church in trust for Gods seruants. Now for a man to take vpon him to bee a disposer of that to his owne benefit, which as a pledge is committed to him of trust to bee deliuered to the true owner, when it should be required; what this is, let any reasonable man iudge.

In the Canon Law, all Aduowsons, as being contained vnder Ius Patronatus, The right of Patronage, were forbidden to be bought and sold: as Gregory saith (Decret. lib. 3. De Iure Patronatus, tit. 38.cap.6.) calling Aduowsons, Adnocatias, Ius Patronatus, or Aduocationes, or Vice-dominatum, or Custodias, or Guardias: Quia Clerici quidam Adnocatias Ecclesiarum comparant, vel quocunque modo possunt, acquirunt, vt postmodum eorum filij, vel nepotes, ad easdem Ecclesias praesententur, praecipimus vt id arctius inhibeatur; eosdem aduocationibus taliter acquisitis, appellatione postposita, spoliando. So that the Canon Law forbiddes merchandizing of Adnowsons.

Now let vs see in a word, vpon what reason that which hath beene delivered by the Canonists and Schoole-men, and learned Diuines concerning this point, is grounded:
