---
reading: burton-simony
page: 35
pdf_page: 51
sortable_pagination_id: 51
---

The right of Patronage (say they) may not be fold. Why? Not onely in regard of the nature, and condition of such dedicate things, which are spirituall; and therefore incompetent matter of Sale: but also of the neceffarie effects, and inconueniences which must needes follow vpon such Sale. For, grant a libertie that it be lawfull to fell a Patronage: then it followeth, that it will be as lawfull to fell a Prefentation, and then an Aduowson: And then I would faine know, why it should not bee as lawfull to fell the Benefice, when it is vacant? But because men make no great question about the lawfulnesse of felling, either in the Vacancie, or much lefse before it; consider we the lawfulneffe or vnlawfulnesse of buying. To buy an Aduowson paffeth currant for lawfull: and yet to buy the Vacancie, is iudged Simonie, both by our Statute Lawes, and Church Canons. Well, I thus infer, and so conclude: if it be Simoniacall to buy a Benefice, when it is vacant: why then should it not be equally Simoniacall to buy the Aduowson? and so of the Presentation? and so of the Patronage? Or if it bee lawfull to buy the Aduowson, why should it not bee as lawfull euerie whit to buy the Benefice? yea, of the two I should thinke it rather lawfull to buy in the Vacancie, then before. Because it may feeme an iniurious thing, as to take another mans Leafe, so another mans Lining ouer his head: And it is vnlawfull to contract for anothers mans wife, before her husband bee dead. But it is an infallible rule: Quod est fecundum se malum ex genere, nullo modo potest effe bonum & licitum. It is Aquinas speech, which he applies to disproue the lawfulnesse of a lie for any respect. That which in its owne nature and kinde is euill, can by no meanes bee good and lawfull; or that which is substantially euill, cannot bee made good by any circumstance. To buy things of a spirituall nature, is naturally euill, as was said before: Any act is naturally euill, when it falleth vpon an vndue subiect; if therefore it be euill to buy a Benefice in the Vacancie, then it is euill to buy the same, either in the Aduowson, or in the Presentation, or in the Patronage. And if it bee euill
