---
reading: burton-simony
page: 36
pdf_page: 52
sortable_pagination_id: 52
---

euill to buy: then by the Law of Correlation, it is euill to sell in all these respects. And if the buyer bee Simoniacall, the seller must be so too. Again, as it is unlawfull so to buy and sell, in regard of the nature of such things, being spirituall: so also in regard of the common effects and fruits of such merchandize. For tell me when yee buy an Aduowson, or Patronage of an Ecclesiasticall Liuing; to what end is it? To bestow it freely and faithfully vpon some worthy able Minister, for the good of Gods Church, without any Temporall respect? It were to bee wished, this were your end. But doe you not intend to gaine by such a bargaine, either by placing some of your kin, or by selling it in the Vacancie to him that will be your best Chap-man? Is not this the generall practise? Nor doe I hereby condemne our Law, for allowing such things, as Aduowsons and Patronages to bee bought and sold: Seeing it also disalloweth Simoniacall, or by respects, which being taken away, either few or none would meddle with such merchandise, or else they should not so iustly incurre the Censure of Simonie, as so commonly they doe.

Yet here I put a difference betweene the purchase of an Aduowson, and of the intire Patronage. And againe, I put a difference betweene the purchasing of a Patronage by a priuate man, and by a Colledge in the Vniuersitie. For the purchase of a single Aduowson doth too commonly aime at some temporall or carnall respect, or commoditie, whereas some may happily purchase the perpetuall Patronage, to leave it as an honour to his House, or posteritie, while hee and his heires, according to his intention and will, become the instruments of Gods glorie in the judicious and ingenuous bestowing the Benefice franke and free at cuerie Vacancie. But this being verie rare, although I neither denie, nor enuie the right of Patronage to bee resident in priuate men, so it bee rightly vsed: yet I confesse I could wish (for the auoiding of that generall corruption, and abuse in the collation of Benefices) that Colledges in each Vniuersitie were possessed of as many Patronages in this Land, as possibly
