---
reading: burton-simony
page: 37
pdf_page: 53
sortable_pagination_id: 53
---

poffibly they could procure, or purchase, redeeming them out of many hucksters hands, which would be an excellent meanes, to increase Learned Diuines, to repreffe Simoniacall Pedanticks, to refresh the Colledges by continuall interchange of Students, to prouide for manie able men to be exercised in the Church, whose gifts, for want of fuch meanes, often lie buried in a Colledge life. Yet I denie not, but fometimes corruption may creepe in at the Colledge gates, but the ftrict Lawes of Colledges, well executed, may, as a carefull Porter, either whip, or keepe it out. This were (in my opinion) the likeliest way to preuent Simonie, and to prouide a good Ministrie. And fome Colledges (I know) are carefull this way, both in Cambridge and Oxford, whose example I could wish all the rest would bee as carefull to follow. But so much of purchafing.

### CHAP. X.

### Of the sundry wayes and wyles of committing Simonie.

As all Simonists are either Buyers or Sellers: So, out of these wee may obserue the sundrie forts of Simoniacall Contracts. For Simonie is growne such a Trade, wherein so many great Merchants doe trafficke, as it may challenge as good a Charter for a Hall to make it a Corporation or Societie in the Church, as the Worshipfull Company of Cut-purses are faid to vfurpe in the Citie. Many, well towards the trade, openly profeffing, that were it not for the Oath, they hold it as lawfull to buy a Benefice, as a horse in Smithfield. But let vs see this Pedlers packe opened.

The most beaten high-way of Simonists is by Siluer Croffe; Monie, or monie worth, at two or three yeeres purchase, or by referuation of some tithes, whether by expreffe contract, or by long concealement, or by strong hand. Whereupon Aquinas faith, Si Patronus, &c. If the Patron require
