---
reading: burton-simony
page: 38
pdf_page: 54
sortable_pagination_id: 54
---

require of him, on whom hee conferres the Benefice, any of the fruits thereof, it is all one, as if hee exacted some Bribe; and this is Simoniacall. Sometimes hee deales by his Factor; or giues such a Benefice to his seruant for a Reward and Salarie of his seruice, to make his best Market of it: To this purpose the said Author saith, Si aliquis, &c. If any give an Ecclesiasticall Benefice to one, with this condition or intention, that thereby hee may prouide for his Kindred, it is manifest Simonie: As for a Patron to bestow his Benefice upon his kinsman, for alliance sake, it is Simonie. Nam potest, &c. For there may be Simonie in the intention, if not the worthinesse of the Person, but humane fauour be respected; saith Aquinas. So many parents buy a Presentation or Aduowson, that in time to come it may fall to bee a portion to one of their children, proue hee at all aduenture fit, or vnfit, good, or bad, Scholler, or man, Quanquam, &c. Though according to the Decrees of Ancient Canons, children, which through the couetousnesse of their parents, haue obtained Churches by money, are bound to forgoe them againe; yea, and to loose their money too. Pecunia tua, &c. Thy money perish with thee; as Aquinas also saith, Simoniacus nullum ius habet, pecuniam suam turpiter collatam iniuste detentam, repetendi: A Simonist hath no right to plead the restitution of his money corruptly disbursed, and vniustly detained.

Some other Pedanticke will needes ride gallop to the Deuill, by buying a horse of the Patron, and so hee will come as freely by the Benefice, as hee that was inuited of free cost to a fat goose, paying onely for the sauce. Others, Vili obsequio aut corporali seruitio Simoniam perpetrant; which is not the cheapest rate. Manifestum est autem, quod obsequium hominis ad aliquam vtilitatem ordinatur qua potest precio pecunia estimari. Ecclesiasticke Doctors propound three kindes of Simonie: first, manuum: secondly, obsequy: thirdly, linguæ: that of the hand they account inferiour to the other two. Damianus saith: Oportet Pontificem esse boni operis sectatorem. Nam bonum opus desiderat. Excute manus ab omni dono. At nunc excutit, sed implicasse conuincitur, qui nanciscende dignitatis ambitu; Potestatum sublimium castra sectant. Nam dum
