---
reading: burton-simony
page: 4
pdf_page: 20
sortable_pagination_id: 20
---

flocke, which being done by canonicall and orderly calling, it is a gift no lesse ascribed to the Holy Ghost, then that other of Ordination. So the Apostle expresseth in his charge to the Clergie of Ephesus (Act.20. 28.) Take heed to your selues, and to the whole flocke of God, Whereof the Holy Ghost hath made you Episcopos, or Ouerseers. See here, to be an Ouerseer, whether Episcopus, by a note of Excellencie, as the Superior Ouerseer, or Superintendent ouer all particular both flockes and Pastors in his peculiar Diocesse: Or else euery inferiour and subordinate Minister in his seuerall Parish, placed as an Ouerseer or Watch-man ouer his flocke, as Lyra also vnderstandeth. This is the gift of the Holy Ghost. Now then to buy this gift, to be made a Bishop ouer such a See, or a Pastor, or Rector of such a flocke, doth it not iumpe with this definition of Simony? For Simony is a trucking of the gifts of the holy Ghost: but such an Ouerseership is a gift of the Holy Ghost. Therefore to buy this gift, is Simony.

### CHAP. II.

Wherein the former definitions are cleered from certaine obiections and nice distinctions.

But for answere to our former Argument, The sophisticall Simonist, or simoniacall Sophister, distinguisheth, Inter Beneficium & beneficium, betweene the Benefice, and the benefit; Or more distinctly, Beneficium emit, non officium: He buyeth the profit, not the office: Non Curam, Sed curam; not the Cure of others soules, but the Cure and prouision for his owne body. Paschalis answereth this obiection: Si quis obiecerit non consecrationes emi, Sed res que ex consecratione proueniunt, penitus desipere probatur; Nam cum corporalis Ecclesia, aut Episcopus, &c. If any shall obiect that hee buyeth not the Consecrations, but those things which follow and attend the Consecration, hee is a manifest Dotard. For seeing a Corps
