---
reading: burton-simony
page: 41
pdf_page: 57
sortable_pagination_id: 57
---

yond Seas, expecting to bee lured home againe with some high preferment. Of such, Cyprian in his 72. Epistle speaketh copiously and very aptly; where he aduiseth that after their returne from their Heresies, they should not by and by be admitted to place of preferment in the Church, but first be proued by long humiliation: he giues the reason; because oftentimes they proue dangerous, sith they cannot easily cast up the poison of Heresie, which they haue once drunke in; so that they should be content onely to be pardoned, & receiued into the peace of the Church, and so remaine till they have giuen sufficient triall and testimonie of their sound repentance and reformation. Concil. Elebert. can. 22. saith of such; Placuit huic pænitentiam non esse denegandam, eo quod cognouerit peccatum suum, qui etiam decem annis agat pænitentiam : nisi Infantes suissent transducti : We are pleased not to deny penance to such a one, sith hee hath acknowledged his sin, who also let him doe ten yeeres penance. Vnlesse they had beene carried away in their infancie. (Though such are most incurable; as the Poet saith, Quo semel est imbuta recens seruabit odorem Testa diu. When they doe cum lacte nutricis errorem surgere, sucke error from the Nurse, it stickes by them. As we see the Jesuiticall milke doth, whereby men coming to some growth, their nurcerie becomes a second nature.) Otherwise, as Boniface said well, Nullum precio est inuitandus ad conuersionem: None is by reward to be inuited to conuersion. For, as Seneca saith, Precio parata, soluitur pretio fides : Bought faith, is easily sold againe.

Others are said to commit Simonie, when by mutuall stipulation or couenant they make an exchance of Benefices or Prebends, making their match according to the value of the things. And if this be Simonie, as the Ancients haue defined it to bee, it were to bee wished that the exchange, at least were free from stipulation, and that the maine end of such permutations did ayme principally at the common good of the Church. Yea, I haue heard of a strange kind of Simonie in fashion beyond the Seas, which they call, Sacrum-aucupium, in English, Sermon-simonie. When
