---
reading: burton-simony
page: 42
pdf_page: 58
sortable_pagination_id: 58
---

When the fratres prædicantes, being about to purchase, haue in a readinesse some exquisite master-piece, the merite whereof challenging no meane aduancement, serueth only to couer and colour ouer, or as a purse, to carrie and conuey the more closely the set price of the preferment, at least to take away the smell of Simonie, that so the Patron may be as free from suspicion of Simonie, as the adulterous woman, when she hath wiped her lips, and saith, I haue not committed iniquitie. So saith the Patron, I haue bestowed it vpon a worthy and rare Preacher: so rare, as it is thought he spent more sweat in that one Sermon, about the getting, then euer hee meanes to spend againe in all his Sermons hee makes, while hee keepeth his preferment. Now what should moue this Frier predicant, thus to colour and gild ouer his Simonie with such a sacred gold, is hard to say, vnlesse some false Glosse vpon the Prouerbs hath made him beleeue, that such preaching to such ends, is to speake a word in season, which is, Like apples of gold in pictures of siluer, as Salomon saith. But the Glosse is ill turned into a Glose. The Apostle forbids such merchandise of the Word for filthy lucre sake. [2. Cor. 2.17. 1. Pet. 5.2.]

What should I speake of that more then common custome of Matrimoniall Simonie, no lesse odious then the rest, when a Benefice, or other Ecclesiasticall dignitie, must become the portion of some daughter or Kinswoman, at the least, an honest woman? And so if that glosse bee true, that a Bishop must bee the husband of one wife, that is, of one Benefice (as the Romish Church expoundeth it, not for any zeale they beare to singularitie of Benefices, but for the hatred they haue against the vniuersalitie of Priests marriages) then also may it bee as true, that a man making such a match for a Benefice, should marrie two wiues at once.

I haue also heard of another base kind of Simonie in practise: That the Patron admits not his Incumbent, but with a strong Obligation or Bond, to tye the Incumbent to quit the Benefice at three moneths warning, whensoeuer the
