---
reading: burton-simony
page: 43
pdf_page: 59
sortable_pagination_id: 59
---

the Patron shall require, or hold vp his finger: as Maisters vse to giue their seruants a quarters warning, when they are wearie of them. By this deuice the Patron holds the Incumbent in a miserable seruitude, as being his Tenant at will; while in the meane time the Patron may Lord it as he list without controll: for the Incumbent is bound not to reproue any thing his good Master doth, or saith, but must say Amen to all, or else farewell All. The Patron hath also another drift in this, that wanting for the present a good Chapman, to gaine time, and a better thing, hee puts in his Bond-man, till he be prouided to his liking.

All vnpreaching Ministers possessing any good Benefice, are by strong presumption deepe Simonists. For let them tell mee, for what respects, or good gifts they were so preferred: except it be that they and all their good gifts, shook hands, and parted, so soone as they and their fat Benefice met.

Some, by mentall reseruation commit Simonie, when both the Patron expects to receiue, and the Presentee purposes to giue some gratuitie afterwards, without any expresse promise or pre-contract, onely vpon trust, that so he may saue his Oath. This is a mock-Simonie, and mock-Oath. For is not this Gehezi's sinne? Of which the Glosse (saith) Hoc exemplum est Argumentum contra eos, qui non exigunt, seu accipiunt, ante Collationem Beneficy. Gehezi asked but a gratuitie after the healing; or say, It was his fee: For seruants must liue. But hee had his gratuitie with a vengeance. Is this a time to receiue siluer and gold? The leprosie therefore of Naaman cleaue vnto thee, and to thy seed for euer. Away with such gratuitie. Indeed if a Benefice were a temporall benefit, it might require a temporall requitall: But being of a spirituall nature, what gratuitie or thankfulnesse should the Patron expect, or the Incumbent performe, but a painefull & faithfull discharge of that Cure of Soules committed to his trust? This is to giue spirituall thanks, for a spirituall gift. As Gratian saith; Semper premium aliquid debet interuenire, spirituale scilicet meritum hominis: There ought alwaies some
