---
reading: burton-simony
page: 44
pdf_page: 60
sortable_pagination_id: 60
---

some gift to interuene, to wit, a mans spirituall merit. Such a spirituall gift, as the Apostle longed to bestow vpon his Romans, Rom. 1.11. But of any other gift the verie expectation is in danger of Simonie. I haue heard of Temporall men, who haue refused after-gifts of their seruants, whom they had preferred freely to some temporall Office, taking the verie offer verie indignely: How much more should this puritie be preserued in spirituall preferments?

But here some may obiect.

Ob. But hauing receiued a temporall benefit, shall I not, or may I not in some sort recompense it with some temporall signification of thankfulnesse? I answere, That this benefit is not of a temporall nature, but spirituall, as we said before. Or allow it to bee so farre temporall, as it may require some temporall requitall: yet it must bee with certaine limitations. * Alexander the third, writing to the Archbishop of Strygon concerning a horse, which his brother vnwitting to him gaue to P. the Popes Legate, for his election after it was done, which notwithstanding was a scruple in the Archbishops conscience, resolueth him thus: In giuing or receiuing, three things are to bee obserued: first, The qualitie of the persons, of, and to whom it is giuen, whether poore or rich: Secondly, The quantitie of the gift: thirdly, The time of giuing, whether in time of necessitie, or otherwise. If therefore, saith he, we respect the conditions of the foresaid parties, the Cardinall and your brother, it was no great matter for the one to send the other a horse, which haply such a rich man as that would giue to a jester, without requesting it. But if we consider the necessitie of the time, it appeares it was done with no other intention, then to supply the Cardinalls want at that time, when in an vnquoth place hee was vnprouided of a horse. And forasmuch (saith hee) as it is written, Beatus qui excutit manus ab omni munere: Blessed is hee, that shaketh his hands from euery bribe: it is spoken of those gifts, which are wont to allure and peruert the minde of the receiver. But such gifts, as without compact the elected giueth to his Patron; or so, as the quantitie of them bee not of force to incline or moue
