---
reading: burton-simony
page: 45
pdf_page: 61
sortable_pagination_id: 61
---

the will of the Receiuer; Non interpretari confueuit Eccl. Ro. accipientem, in his Delinquere, vel donantem: In these things, the Romane Church doth not use to interpret the Receiuer, or the giuer to offend. So hee. Note here the tendernesse of this Archbishops confcience; his brother gaue but a horse vnwitting to him, without any precompact, and that after the Election, and in the Cardinalls need at that time. And yet I read not that this horfe was of any extraordinarie price, not worth fiue hundred, or a thousand pound; as Patrons horses are eftimated elsewhere.

Not much vnlike to this, is a kind of Simonie, not vnfrequent in the world; but so fine, as it disclaimeth and disdaineth all affinitie with Simonie. A man hath fairely and incorruptly (at leaft for any money matter) obtained of the Patron a free graunt of fome Ecclefiafticall preferment: but after the graunt, before it passe the feales, the fuiter muft passe the pikes of much difficultie, yea and danger too, leaft through some neglect, or delay, some other get betweene him and home. As the Spider hauing intangled some sturdie Fly in her fubtill net, bestirres her nimble ioynts, to make the weakeft places fure, where is any danger of euafion. But the Schollar being of an ingenuous difpofition, one that cannot dance attendance at euerie doore, and that blusheth to appeare an importunate fuiter, and that in such places, where all Schollars, being not in ordinarie attendance, are suspected: to cut off all impatience of delay, and feare of dangers, chuseth rather, Redimere vexationem fuam quàm queat minimo; si nequeat paululo, at quantuli queat; Say it be, &c. This cafe was put to mee by a learned man, to know what I thought of it. I told him ingenuously, that for my part, I could be content to redeeme the credit of a Minifters modestie, in such attendance with any reasonable ransome. But to giue such a round summe, not onely to redeeme impatience, but to prevent the perill of loofing the preferment for lacke of prouident, yea importunate pursuing: it was in my iudgement like the Secundine, or after-birth of Simonie. A moderate & modeft diligence,
