---
reading: burton-simony
page: 47
pdf_page: 63
sortable_pagination_id: 63
---

sterie of this iniquitie, and found all the deepes of it.

As for Impropriations, though they were originally maine branches of the Leuiticall Stock, and so the merchandizing of them also might claime kindred with Simonie: yet because they are slips broken off, and transplanted out of the Garden and Paradise of God; the Learned Treatise of that godly Scotish knight, Sir Iames Semple, as also that other of Sir Henry Spelman, an English Knight, both of the Lay Tribe, two noble and pregnant witnesses, doth more iustly intitle it selfe to this Argument. Onely, I would to God these two worthy Treatises were throughly studied, and conscionably applied, and printed in the hearts and consciences of all Impropriators, to their eternall saluation; by being conscionably perswaded to shake their hands of such sacred things, restoring them to Christ the onely true Proprietary, the wronging of whom in this kind will one day proue fearefull sacriledge, whatsoeuer men thinke of it now.

### Chap. XI. Of the highest degree of Simonie, committed in Ordination.

Concerning Simonie committed in Ordination, although haply the money giuen for a simple Ordination be but small, vnlesse it be for some egregious Dunce, to which, as Salomon saith of a dull-edged instrument, a man must put the more strength; and, as it were, the more weight to the lighter scale. Yet of all other kindes of Simonie, this is the most pernicious and damnable: yea, the lesse a man giueth or receiueth in this respect, it is an argument of the lesse esteeme he makes of so holy and excellent a Calling. As the Lord saith of Iudas his selling of Christ for thirtie pieces of siluer: A goodly price that I was prized at of them
