---
reading: burton-simony
page: 48
pdf_page: 64
sortable_pagination_id: 64
---

them. Now this is so properly Simonie, as it is the very sinne of Simon himselfe, which is to buy the gifts of the Holy Ghost. A sinne so detestable, as that the Church of Rome it selfe (though now the Mother and Nurse of abominations) hath cried out against This sinne. For we must put a great difference betweene the now Church of Rome, and that which it hath beene formerly, and that euen within these three or foure hundred yeeres. For in former times, as that Church hatched & fostered many enormities, both of Doctrine and Manners, which by degrees crept in, till Antichrist should come to his full stature; yet there was place left for reproofe, deuout and learned men might speake and write freely of the abuses of it. But now, within lesse then these hundred yeeres, since the Councell of Trent, this Church is growne to that superciliousnesse and height of pride, that no man may once mention the least speck or blemish of that foolish Virgin, or rather, filthy Whoore; nay those that haue alreadie in their writings left any record or Monuments of Romes sinne, and in especiall, of this of Simonie, it must passe through the fire of their Index Expurgatorius. Take one example among other. Claude Espencæus, in his Commentaries vpon his Epistle to Titus; where he toucheth the corruptions of the Church of Rome in matter of Simonie, there hee must bee purged. For the purpose, in that Impression at Paris, by Michael Sonnius, in quarto, Pag. 65. Deleatur ab illis verbis, sed annon αἰσχροκερδία, vsque ad, Idque, adeo in confesso est. And Pag. 74. Circa medium deleantur illa verba, Adeo Romanam Curiam repurgare sibi non permifit. And Pag. 76. Deleatur ab illis verbis, Viuere qui capitis, vsque ad, Sacra sunt venalia Romæ. & pag. 78. lin. 8. Deleatur ab illis verbis, Et cum alia vendant alij, vsque ad, Cælum est venale, Deusque. Which places, because they are not obvious to euery Reader, and that it may appeare how their Index cannot so blur the truth, or bleere mens eyes, but that the Whoores filthinesse will be discouered: I haue thought good to set downe the former alledged places at large; saving
