---
reading: burton-simony
page: 49
pdf_page: 65
sortable_pagination_id: 65
---

uing where whole pages are expurged, too long here to be inserted. In the first place those Verses out of Mantuan are to be cashiered.

Si quid Roma dabit, nugas dabit, accipit aurum,
Verba dat, heu Rome nunc sola pecunia regnat.
Hoc est Roma viris, auibus quod noctua.

If Rome giues ought, tis trifles; gold shee takes,
Giues words, at Rome (alacke) now money makes
Alone the market. Rome is that to men,
Which th'owle is to the birds.

Where also other most beastly stuffe, such as my Author saith, breeds horrour in the very mention, all contained in the Roman Taxa Camera, where all sorts of most horrible sinnes are dispensed withall, at such a rate, as Presbytericide, or Priestkilling, Parricide, Matricide, or killing of ones parents, though willingly, also Simonie, as deseruing to bee ranked among such sinnes, all which, and much more are not onely dispensed with for so much money; but the offenders made capable of any honour or preferment in the Church: all that rabble must bee expurged out of the Author; notwithstanding the Taxa Camera remaines still in force, and none of all these reformed; as the Author saith, which must also bee expurged, Adeo Romanam Curiam repurgare sibi non permisit, &c. no reformation will bee indured. Againe, these Verses must out: so famous in many Authors:

Viuere qui capitis Sanctè, discedite Romæ:
Omnia cum liceat, non licet esse bonum.

All you that would liue holy, hence from Rome:
Where all things else, but goodnesse, find a roome.

And these also related by my Author, must out:

Quisquis opes sacras nummo reperire profano
Quærit, eat Romam, sacra sunt venalia Romæ.

Who sacred grath seeks with vnhallowed gold:
Get him to Rome, where sacred things are sold.

And
