---
reading: burton-simony
page: 5
pdf_page: 21
sortable_pagination_id: 21
---

Corps of a Church, or a Bishop, or such, cannot subsist or be maintained, without things Corporall; no more then the soule can liue corporally without the body; whosoeuer selleth the one of these, without which the other cannot goe alone, hee leaues neither vnsold. Whereupon Gratian faith, Quando quis promouendus est ad Ecclesiam vel ordinem, fructus proueniunt iure ordinis; & ideo non licite emit. When a man is to be promoted to a Church or Bishopricke, or to the order and office of it, the fruits doe follow by right of order, and therefore the purchase is not lawfull. Both Pascals comparison, and Gratians reason, are apt and good. For there is such a mutuall and immediate relation, yea, combination and vnion betweene the Ministery and the Maintenance, as one cannot Subsist without the Support of the other, no more then the soule can exercise sundry faculties (especially those sensitiue offices) without the instrument of the body, or the body can doe her Dutie, without her ordinarie Diet. And as Boaz tendered to his kinsman the purchase of Elimelecks Lands, which at first offer he was willing to buy; but told him withall, that hee must purchase it of Naomi by marrying Ruth, both must goe together: So he that will buy the lands or inheritance of the Church and of the Ministry, hee must make account to buy Ruth with it. The maintenance & the ruthful, and carefull office of the Ministry goe hand in hand together; buy the one, and buy the other too. Therefore anciently Ordination did vse to carry the title with it; as Concil. Chal. Can. 6. So that hee who would buy the Maintenance, must buy also the Ordinance. And is not as well the Maintenance, as the ordinance of the Ministery, a gift of the Holy Ghost? Doth not the Lord say, I haue given the tithes to the Leuites? and are not these tythes holy? And who can giue a holy gift, or make a gift holy, but the Holy Ghost? Whence I inferre this Conclusion: Simony is a Desire, or Act of buying or selling the gifts of the Holy Ghost: but tythes, holy tythes are a gift of the Holy Ghost: Therefore, the Desire or Act of buying or selling holy tythes (by which I vnderstand all Church Maintenance) is Simony.
