---
reading: burton-simony
page: 50
pdf_page: 66
sortable_pagination_id: 66
---

And this which followeth: Et cum alia vendant alij: And whereas others sell other things

Et cum alia vendant alij,
Templa, Sacerdotes, Altaria, Sacra, Corona,
Ignes, Thura, Preces, Cælum est venale, Deusque.

Wee doe sell Temples, Priests, Altars, Sacrifices, Crownes, Fires, Incense, Prayers, Heauen, God, are sold for crownes.

But it is labour in vaine, for Rome to goe about thus to purge out of mens writings, the memory of her inbred corruptions; out of which source, whatsoeuer Simonie is now in any part of the Church, hath issued. Enough to stigmatize and brand this sinne with the greater note of infamie, if it should bee found as well in Iudah, where religion is maintained in her integritie; as in that Idolatrous reuolted Israel, where that grand Jeroboam of Rome, for base bribes, admits into the Priesthood the basest of the people.

I loue not to bee an vnguis in this vlcer: yet being to speake of this sinne, as it is committed in the highest degree, to wit, in Ordination, leauing it to Cham to diuulge his owne Fathers nakednesse, if any such nakednesse were; it shall suffice to doe herein, as Lycurge of old, who to deterre the Lacedemonian lads, from that more then beastly vice of drunkennesse, caused their drunken slaves to bee made a spectacle vnto them, by whose example they might take the deeper impression of dislike and hatred against that sinne. So let vs take, though a briefe view of the Church of Romes sinne in this kinde; omitting particular instances, and contenting our selues with generalls; their good lawes being occasioned by their euill manners.

Pope Leo saith: Gratia si non gratis datur, vel accipitur, gratia non est. Simoniaci autem non gratis accipiunt. Quid ergo dant? profecto quod habent. Quid habent? Spiritum vtique mendacij. Quomodo hoc probamus? Quia si spiritus veritatis (testante ipsa veritate, de qua procedit) gratis accipitur: procul dubio spiritus mendacij esse conuincitur; qui non gratis accipitur, vel datur. If grace, faith hee (speaking of the grace that is conferred by imposition of hands in Ordination) be not gi