---
reading: burton-simony
page: 51
pdf_page: 67
sortable_pagination_id: 67
---

uen or receiued freely, it is no grace. But Simoniacks doe not receiue freely. What giue they then? Surely such as they haue. What haue they? Verily the spirit of lyes. How proue wee this? Because the Spirit of truth (the Truth it selfe being witnesse, from whom it proceedeth) is receiued freely: then doubtlesse it is conuinced to bee the spirit of lyes, which is not receiued or giuen freely. And Gregory, ibidem: Quicunque ftudet per pretij donationem facrum ordinem accipere, Sacerdos non eft : fed nomen tantummodo dici concupifcit. Whosoever affectes to receiue holy orders by the gift of money, hee is no Priest: but couets onely to be called by an emptie title. And a little after, Quisquis per pecuniam ordinatur, ad hoc, ut fiat hæreticus, promouetur. Whosoever is ordained by money, is euen hereunto promoted to bee an hereticke. And Pope Gelatius: Quoscunque stiterit, &c. If it shall appeare that any vnworthy person hath bought the facred Dignitie with money, being conuict, let him be deprived. But what if some worthy man buy with his money? I answere, That cannot bee, if hee be worthy. But let him be what he will, if he buy, it argues vnworthinesse.

Also Saint Ambrofe is alledged: Reperiuntur quamplurimi, negotiatione muneris mercari velle gratiam Spiritus Sancti, dum illi pretium donant, ut Pontificalis Ordinis fublimitatem accipiant, &c. There are found many that by the merchandise of money would buy the grace of the Holy Ghost, while they giue money, to receiue the dignitie of the Pontificall Order. Whereupon a fearefull Anathema is decreed to fuch, as so giue or take. Likewise it is cited out of the Councell of Chalcedon: Si quis Epifcopum per pecuniam Ordinationem fecerit, &c. If any Bishop shall Ordaine for money, and shall purchase the grace of the Holy Ghost at a price, which indeed cannot bee fold: and shall for money ordaine a Priest or Deacon, or shall promote any degree or order within the Verge of the Clergie for filthy lucre, hee that shall attempt this, let him vpon conuiction bee deprived of all. Si quis vero mediator, &c. And if any shall bee a mediator or stickler, for fuch foule and nefarious corruption in giuing and receiuing; if a Clerke, let him be degraded: and if a Laick, accurfed. And out of the eight Synod: Qui per pecuniam, &c. Hee that shall