---
reading: burton-simony
page: 52
pdf_page: 68
sortable_pagination_id: 68
---

consecrate any for money, or is consecrated of another, let him be casheered from the Priesthood. And many other authorities are there alledged to this purpose. And Ambrose saith; Inexpiabilis est culpa venditi Ministerij, & vindicta gratiæ cælestis transit in Posteros. The sinne of selling the Ministery is vnpardonable, and the reuenge of Diuine grace passeth along to the posteritie, like Gehezies leprosie.

But as it is obiected, ibid. Ventum est. Simoniaci, &c. Simoniackes, though they thinke that the grace of the Holy Ghost is vendible, yet they professe the faith, and true religion, and consequently are no Heretickes. It is answered: Simoniaci, &c. Simoniackes, although they seeme to hold the faith: yet they are inthralled to the perdition of infidelitie: as Gregory saith; Cum omnis auaritia, &c. Sith all auarice is Idolatry, whosoeuer doth not carefully auoid this, and especially in bestowing of Ecclesiasticall dignities, is subiect to the perdition of infidelitie: although hee seeme to hold the faith in words, which in deeds hee denyeth. And after; Cum omnis auaritia. Those that ordaine for money, are accounted more intollerable Heretickes then the Macedonians, who denying the Deitie of the Holy Ghost, grossly affirmed him to bee onely the Seruant of the Father and the Sonne: but these make him to be their seruant. And also worse then those Iewes, that blasphemed the Holy Ghost, in ascribing Christs miracles to the power of Beelzebub. And to speake truely, Iuda comparantur Proditori qui Iudais occisoribus Christum vendidit: They are compared to Iudas the Traitor, who sold Christ to the murtherous Iewes. And therefore, Ex Concilio Bracharensi; Placuit. It seemeth good vnto vs, that for ordination of Clerkes, Bishops take no rewards, and that the grace of God by imposition of hands bee not sold for money, but giuen freely, as the Lord hath commanded. For it is an ancient Decree of the Fathers, Anathema sit danti & accipienti: Cursed be the giuer and the receiuer.

Ob. But some obiect: It was vsuall in times past, to bring the reward of soothsaying to the Prophet: as Balack sent to Balaam: and Saul came to Samuel with a gift in his hand. Now prophecie is a gift of the Holy Ghost.
