---
reading: burton-simony
page: 53
pdf_page: 69
sortable_pagination_id: 69
---

But that in the Old Testament was wont to bee sold. Answ. Wee neuer read that the good Prophets tooke any reward at the handes of those that brought it. Elisha flatly refused any part of those riches which Naaman would have presented him with. It was enough for Balaam, and such wicked Prophets, to prophecie for rewards; as the Lord complaineth of such, saying, The Prophets diuine for money: but wee read not, that the good Prophets did receiue any such rewards. Yea, in stead of receiuing any thing, Samuel feasted Saul, and his. Sed fac eum accepisse, say he did receiue it. What was it? The fourth part of a Sicle, a matter of twentie half-penies: so Sauls reward hee brought to Samuel came but to fiue half-pennies. Which yet if Samuel did at all receiue, Supes magis sunt estimande tabernaculi, quam munera Propheta: They are rather to bee esteemed the maintenance of the Tabernacle, then rewards of the Prophet. Et hec magis in sumptum Propheta, quam muneri Prophetia reputanda sunt : licet potuerunt hi, qui ariolos, &c. Though they that accustomed to goe to soothsayers, might out of an euill custome thinke that the Prophets would doe so, to wit, receiue gifts. But Gratian concludes vpon that fourth part of a Sicle, containing fiue half-pennies, which Saul carried to Samuel: Nostri ergo Sacerdotes si volunt vendere prophetiam, & columbam in Cathedres suis proponere, quas Dominus flagello Subuertit: quinque tantum obolorum sint mercede contenti: qui vtinam non pretium villarum, sed quinque obolos acciperent: Therefore our Priests (faith he) if they will sell the gift of prophecie, and set the Doue (to wit, the Holy Ghost) to sale in their Cathedralls, or Seats which the Lord ouerthrew with his whip, let them be content with the reward of fiue half-pennies onely; would they would not receive the worth of whole Villages, but onely fiue half-pennies. In a word, Gregory speaking against Simoniacall ordination raigning in France, our next neighbour, and exhorting Theodoricke and Theobert then raigning there, to call a Synod for the reformation of such Simoniacall Heresie and corruption, faith, In Sacerdotibus fides sit eligenda, cum vita. Que autem opera esse valeant Sacerdotis, qui
