---
reading: burton-simony
page: 55
pdf_page: 71
sortable_pagination_id: 71
---

de regni vestri studeatis finibus prohibere, & nulla apud vos excusatio, nulla contra animam vestram suggestio locum inueniat : quia facientis proculdubio culpam habet, qui quod potest corrigere, negligit emendare. Wherefore (saith hee) greeting you with a fatherly affection, We pray you most excellent sonnes, that you studie to banish this detestable mischiefe out of the coasts of your Kingdome, and let no excuse or pretence, let no suggestion finde place with you against your owne soule : because he is doubtlesse guiltie of the deede it selfe, that hauing power to correct it, neglects to reforme it.

Well, to conclude this point, whether this morbus gallicus were so purged, and banished out of the coast of France as no reliques remaine, I know not. But if it were, I pray God, that for the neernesse of the neighbourhood it haue not sailed ouer (as many other French fashions haue done) and set footing on the Albion shoare, there to spread the infection. I well hope, that the Cinque Ports are so well fortified, as they will not suffer such base wares to come to be entred at the Custom-house, and so to passe vendible here: where Religion is purely planted, Faith truly professed, the practice of Pietie so frequently professed, and well charged Canons mounted. The cinque Ports are the fiue Senses, which Religion so guardeth, as no such Simoniacall corruption can enter at any one Port. Would it enter at the Port of sight, the Eye? That, hath learned to turne away from such vanitie, or not to looke with delight, or not to be dazled, much lesse blinded with such glittering objects, or to bee enamoured with the beautie of faire white and red earth. Or at the Port of touch, the Hand? That, hath learned (not in superstition, Touch not: but) in sinceritie, Touch no vnclean thing; yea, though a gift should leape and fasten it selfe vpon the hand, yet to shake it off into the fire, as Paul did the Viper, without any hurt, or swelling at all. Or at the Port of hearing, the Eare? A religious eare loues not male audire, as to be charmed with any such siluer-sounding musick, though for Time, Number, and Measure, it be neuer so compleat. Or at the Port of the Smell? It, takes
