---
reading: burton-simony
page: 56
pdf_page: 72
sortable_pagination_id: 72
---

the Incense of any such sacrifice in scorne and high disdaine. Or at the Port of Taste? It cannot relish such γλυκοπικρα, bitter-sweets, though sweet in the mouth, yet bitter in the belly, which the stomack of Conscience can neuer digest, or away with all, as the Apostle said, concerning the incest committed by one among the Corinthians, that they had altogether proued themselues to be cleere in that businesse: so, may not any man say, that the Church of England is altogether free from this kinde of Simonie? How many may say that truly, which Saul did fainedly, I haue kept the Lords Commandement, in this point. But some will say, as Samuel said, What meaneth then the bleating of the sheepe, and the bellowing of the Oxen which I heare? There goes a rumour of I know not what. Some false fame. How? Simonie committed in giving and taking holy Orders? Absit. In France indeede, our neighbour Nation: but the Sea is betweene, enough to drowne such Simonie, and so neuer suffer it to arriue at vs. When Saint Ambrose spake of this sinne, saying of a Simoniacall Bishop, Ab Archiepiscopo sum nuper Episcopus ordinatus, centumque ei solidos dedi, ut Episcopalem gratiam consequi meruissem; quos si minime dedissem, hodie Episcopus non essem; unde mihi melius est aurum de saccello subtrahere, quam tantum Sacerdotium perdere; aurum dedi, & Episcopum comparaui; quos tamen solidos si viuo, recepturum me illico non diffido; Ordino Presbyteros, consecro Diaconos, & accipio aurum: nam de alys nihilominus Ordinibus pecunia questum profligare confido, &c. doth any man thinke that this holy man euer meant or thought of any such Simoniacall Bishop beyond any part of the Sea from Millan? much lesse,

Vt penitus toto diuisos orbe Britannos
Simonia argueret tanta?

Farre be Saint Ambroses instance from England, as wee are from Millan, where he was then Bishop. I hope, nay I dare say that there is no Bishop in England, though of small meanes, who accompteth Ordination-fees among his reuenues. Absit. Imo absint, qui talia somniant. Wee disdaine
