---
reading: burton-simony
page: 57
pdf_page: 73
sortable_pagination_id: 73
---

to stoope to any such Lure, or base Lucre. Let no man take vs for such rude Artists, as that while we teach others the way to heauen with our tongues, wee should commit such a solecisme, as to point to the earth with our hand. Or such shallow Diuines, that, as if wee had neuer beene trayned vp in Vniuersitie studies, we should make such a glosse vpon the holy Text, Let not thy left hand know, what thy right hand doth: that a man may therefore practise pietie with the one hand, and Simonie with the other. But if such there should chance to bee, that dare sell the holy Ghost, as there was euen among the twelue one Iudas, that did sell his Lord & Master Christ: What then? What successe had Iudas? after restitution, suspension. Ecclesiasticall suspension were too good for such. VVhen Esau had sold his birth-right, wherein was included the Priesthood, hee was so desperately cut off from the blessing, that hee found no place for repentance to obtaine so much as one blessing, though hee sought it with teares: Hast thou not one blessing, my father? Not one. The blessing remained with Iacob, to whom God had promised, & giuen it with the Priesthood. Yet profane Esau liued, and inioyed the fatnesse of the earth, and the deaw of heauen. True. But how? He must liue by his bowe; by killing and destroying. The very life of Simoniacall ordainers, and ordained: like the Theefe which climing up into the sheep fold another way, comes not, but to steale, to kill, and to destroy. While Iacob, he that is called by God to the Priesthood, and to bee a Shepherd, keepes and feedes the flock, but kills none; insomuch as Laban missed none of all his sheepe, while they were in Iacobs keeping. Gihezi for his though after-selling, purchased Naamans leprosie to himselfe, and to his posteritie for euer; all selling ordainers are Gihezites, and therefore lepers, and so shut out by Gods Law from his holy Congregation, euen the communion of Saints, as vnhallowed and vncleane persons, Simons doome was, Thy money perish with thee: thou hast no part, nor lot in this businesse: thy heart is not right; thou art in the gall of bitternesse, and in the bond of iniquitie. Here is a hard choice
