---
reading: burton-simony
page: 58
pdf_page: 74
sortable_pagination_id: 74
---

choice for all Simonists, especially Simoniacall ordainers, that sell (quantum in se est, Spiritus Sancti, quod certe nihil est) the holy Ghost, they may choose whether they will haue Esaus curse, or Naamans leprosie, or Iudas his suspension, or Simons perdition: or rather all of these together, sith such Simoniacks are of Edoms line, Gibezies posteritie, successors of Iudas, and Simons owne sonnes. But how can such a faire body, of so sound a constitution, as is this noble Church of England, euer hatch or harbour tales vomicas, such impostumated humours, and not vomit them out of her mouth? Impossible it is, that such weedes should grow in this Garden, the very Paradise of God. But if they should, the Lord roote them out, and euer preserue this his Eden with the flaming sword of the fierie Cherubims, that neuer any Simoniacall Ordainer, or Ordained, may dare to set his filthy foot on this holy ground, or thrust in his soule hand, to take of the Tree of Life, to purchase to himselfe that power of Christ, of which hee said to his Disciples, Freely you haue receiued, freely giue. I will conclude with that of Cyprian: Dominus Gibezi mercenarium lepra condemnat, & Ieroboam vendentem Sacerdotia cum Apostatis locat. Hic Simonem gratia Dei nundinatorem a Sanctorum consortio exhaeredat, cuius detestabiles ausus ultrix ruina confundit & quassat. Hic Balaam ad maledicendum conducto silentium imponit; & per Asinam redargutum, colliso ad parietem pede vacuum pecunia, oneratum contumelia, claudicantem ad propria remisit confusum: The Lord doth condemne mercenarie Gibezi with the leprosie, and ranketh Ieroboam, selling the Priesthood, with Apostataes. He dis-inheriteth Simon from the communion of Saints for bartering of the grace of God, whose detestable darings a reuengefull ruine doth confound and shake. Hee imposeth silence upon Balaam, being hired to curse, and being reprooued by his Asse, dashing his foot against the wall, he sent him back confounded, emptie of money, loaden with infamie, and returning halting home.
