---
reading: burton-simony
page: 59
pdf_page: 75
sortable_pagination_id: 75
---

### CHAP. XII.

### Reasons shewing the vnreasonablenesse of Simonie. Objections answered.

As euery sinne is in its owne nature vnreasonable, as being repugnant euen to the Dictate of naturall reason: So *Simonie*, for this reason, may challenge a place and ranke among other sinnes.

First, *Simonie* is vnreasonable, because it is sacriledge, it robs God of his right. Will a man rob his gods, to vsurpe vpon Tithes, by buying and selling (for buying and selling Tithes is an vsurping vpon Tithes) is to robbe God. For to buy of the Patron, is to subscribe that the right of Tithes is interessed in him, and not in God, and so to ascribe the power and propertie of tithes to the Patron that sels them, not to God, who gaue them, still retayning the proprietie of them in himselfe. Whence wee may conclude, all those to bee either Simonists, or Fauourers of them, that denie Tithes to be due Iure Diuino. For why denie they this, but flattering themselues, that thus they may the more licentiously buy and sell them, and so hold the poore Ministers nose to the grindstone; whereas although they had beene dedicate onely by Man, yet ought they not so to bee profaned.

Secondly, *Simonie* is vnreasonable, because it debaseth and vilifieth that which is honorable, as is the gift of God. And Tithes are the gift of God; therefore honorably to be esteemed. Peter said to Simon, Thy money perish with thee, because thou thinkest the gift of God may bee obtayned with money. Hee vilified Gods gift, and therefore hee was set light by the Apostle. Wherefore, and what was Belshazzars punishment? Hee set light by the holy Vessels of Gods Temple, when prophanely hee presumed to drinke in them, He and his Concubines: and was he not well requited, when while hee was drinking, hee saw that hand-writing vpon the wall, Thou art weighed in the ballance and found
