---
reading: burton-simony
page: 6
pdf_page: 22
sortable_pagination_id: 22
---

So that the Simonists former distinction serueth onely to distinguish betweene right reason, and his owne fond imagination, which are no way compatible, but must needs make him, vt cum ratione insaniat. And truely I very easily beleeue, that hee speakes as hee thinkes? For few such Merchants would bee at that cost, to purchase such a Cure, were it not for the Commodity, as Chrysostome saith, I suppose no man, though neuer so thirstie of glory, would euer be made a Bishop, vnlesse necessitie called him thereunto; For who is sufficient for these things? And Cardinall Poole, being charged by a Cardinall of the aduerse faction, with ambition in ouer-hasty seeking after the Popedome, answered, That he thought not the burthen of that great office to be so light, but that he was of the minde, that it was rather to be feared, then desired. But later times are so pregnant, producing such sky-soaring spirits, as now, who is not sufficient for these things? And what reason hath any man of reason to thinke, that these sufficient men should haue such leaden heads, as once to vouchsafe to reach out their golden hands, to the end to purchase and pull vpon themselues the burthen of such a Cure: no more then he would thinke, that such would euer bee content (if it were possible) to become ioynt-purchasers with Christ, whose Bishopricke cost him the shedding of his most precious bloud; no nor euer imitate Saint Pauls example, Phil.2.17. or obey Saint Johns precept, 1.Ioh.3.16.

### CHAP. III.

Wherein other shifts and euasions are met withall.

But what is become of my Simonist? I thought I had catched him fast euen now with my Sillogisme. But Quo teneam vultum mutantem Protea nodo? How shall I hold this shifting Proteus? with what Cords or Wychs shall I bind this Sampson-like Simon! Emit, non Emit : beneficium, non
