---
reading: burton-simony
page: 60
pdf_page: 76
sortable_pagination_id: 76
---

too light? He set light by Gods consecrate things, and God set light by him, hee finds him too light. Let all spirituall merchants, both Patrons and Parsons, bee strucke with terror of this example, as Belshazzar was with the hand-writing. And hee must needes bee culpable of this sinne, that setteth any terrene price vpon a spirituall thing.

A third reason, why Simonie is vnreasonable, is because it makes the Simonist besides himselfe. For hee comes as a Minister to buy: but buying, hee professeth and proueth himselfe to bee no Minister of God. For as God gaue the Tithes anciently to the Leuites, he gaue them freely, and a free gift ought not to bee bought: So hee hath giuen the same to his Ministers of the new Testament as freely; whatsoeuer Minister therefore shall offer to buy these Tithes, must either confesse that they are not the free gift of God, or that he himselfe hath no interest in them, as the Minister of God, and so no Minister of God. If therefore holy Tithes belong properly and of right to Ministers, why doe they buy them? And if they buy them, what right had they vnto them?

Fourthly, it is against reason to commit treason; but Simonie is treason. For as Iudas conspiring with the Iewes by buying and selling, betraied the person of Christ: So Simonists conspiring together through buying and selling, betray the Church of Christ, yea betray the body of Christ, the members of Christ; as shall appeare more at large, when we come to shew the effects of Simonie.

But the Simonist obiecteth. I am faine to buy, because All, or Most are set a buying; So that if I buy not I am like to haue nothing. This is as good a reason, as if hee said, I must sinne, because it is the fashion of All, or Most, so to doe. This man will goe to the Deuill for companie. But let mee tell thee, if it were not for such as thou art, wee should shortly haue no Simonists at all. For thou buyest, because others buy; Well: Doe but thou, and all such as thou art, who thus sinne by others example, hold your hand a while, and in short time *desinet amnis*, the Brooke at last of such
