---
reading: burton-simony
page: 61
pdf_page: 77
sortable_pagination_id: 77
---

examples will be quite dried vp, when it ceaseth to be fed and supplied with such headie Currents. For else, by following such examples, thou, and such as thou art, become examples to draw others after thee, and so each for his part both maintayneth and increaseth that wicked Trade, each striuing who can runne fastest to the Deuill. Another saith, he buyeth of force, that he may haue a place in the Church to exercise those gifts God hath bestowed vpon him, for the good of his Church. And if he buy not, those gifts shall lie buried in the earth. That were great pitie. But what gifts? I doubt whether any sanctified and true Priestly gifts, that will so easily be corrupted with Simonie. But as the King of Gath said to Dauid, counterfeiting madnesse; Haue wee neede of mad men? So, haue wee neede of Simonists in the Church? Or as Philip King of Macedon, seeing his sonne Alexander by large gifts to wooe the good will of the Macedonians, writ vnto him in an Epistle: Qua te malum ratio in istam spem induxit, vt eos tibi fideles putares fore, quos pecunia corrupisses? An id agis, vt Macedones non te Regem suum, sed Ministrum & præbitorem putent, quo quid Sordidius Regi? So we may inuert it vpon our Simonist thus: Qua te malum ratio in istam spem induxit, vt populo te fidelem putares fore Pastorem, cum tuam ipse conscientiam pecunia tua corrupisses? An id agis, ut populus Dei non te Pastorem suum, sed Depastorem, non Concionatorem sed Corruptorem putent, quo quid Sordidius Rectori? But if thou hast such a desire to exercise thy gifts, audiamus disertum: bestow them there, where is most neede, where the people perish for want of prophecie, and prophecie faileth there, because the Tithes are impropriate. Sed nullus ad amissas, ibit Amicus opes. But thou wilt say: Dignus est operarius Mercede sua. True: But either bewray not thy Hypocrisie, by seeking the richest and most eminent places & preferments in the Church (for scarce any else please thee) to exercise thy gifts in: or else make proofe of thy sinceritie, by desiring so to imploy thy gifts in Gods Church, as for that end thou wilt rather content thy selfe with a meane Liuing honestly attained, then
