---
reading: burton-simony
page: 62
pdf_page: 78
sortable_pagination_id: 78
---

to aspire to a greater by corrupt meanes. For it is a question, which is the worst of the two, for the Church to want a Minister, or to be serued with a Simonist.

Another obiecteth: I see the Church of God in great danger, the chiefe places are intruded into by such as will make no conscience of their dutie, as is manifest by those lesser charges and places, wherein they haue beene most negligent and vnfaithfull; and so the ship of the Church shall be in danger of casting away, being gouerned by carelesse Pilots: Therefore for the loue and care I beare to the Church, being conscious of my good conscience, that I ayme chiefly at the good thereof: why may I not redeeme the danger of it with my money? A plausible reason, I confesse; for our very liues are not too deare, much lesse our liuings, to bee spent and sacrificed for the Church of God. It was the Apostles ioy and reioycing, To bee offered vp vpon the sacrifice and seruice of the Philippians faith. And this ought to bee the ioy of euerie faithfull Minister of Christ, lawfully called, and canonically placed in this or that place in the Church. But in this the case is otherwise. A man as yet is not called lawfully and orderly to this or that charge in the Church. Well, the Church wants a good Pastor; Wolues seeke to enter. Shall I to preuent them, climbe vp another way into the Sheep-fold, and not by the Doore? What benefit will this be to the Flocke, when the Thiefe and the Robber comes to preuent the Wolfe? Why was Vzza, being no Priest, smitten? was it not for laying his hand vpon the Arke? contrary to Gods Commandement, Numb.4.15. They shall not touch any holy thing, least they dye? But the Arke was shaken with the Oxen, and he did but stay it; well, hee had his payment for his officiousnesse. So thou seest (at least in thy apprehension) in stead of the true Leuites, the Arke to be drawne by Oxen, the Church to bee swayed by whom it ought not, and the state of it to be shaken, and to bee in ieopardie. Yet take heed thou put not forth thy hand, thy Simoniacall hand to the end to saue the Church from ruine. So, to touch holy
