---
reading: burton-simony
page: 63
pdf_page: 79
sortable_pagination_id: 79
---

holy things, is death; Thy money perish with thee. If Simonie be vnlawfull, and so condemned of all: if it be a sinne, commit it not, yea, though thou couldest thereby procure the safetie of the whole Church of God. For men to say, Let vs doe euill, that good may come thereof: their damnation is iust. Shall I destroy mine owne soule (for euery sinne slayeth the soule) to saue others soules? Yea, saith Iob, Will yee Speake wickedly for Gods defence? and talke deceitfully for his cause? Whereupon Mercerus noteth, saying, Deus hac vestra Defensione non indiget, neque ita se defendi postulat cum alterius Detrimento, ut interim proximo fiat Iniuria. If God then will not haue his cause defended to any mans wrong: neither will he haue his Church saued by any mans destruction. It is against the order of charitie, to lose my owne soule for the sauing of others. Let such a man rather resolue thus; If God will haue mee to helpe to preserue his Church, hee will offer meanes lawfull for mee to attaine this charge. Yea, in such a case the meanes for vs to vse is, Pray the Lord of the Haruest, that hee would send forth Laborers into his Haruest.

And whereas a man may pretend, yea and promise to himselfe, if hee were promoted to such a place, to become a profitable member in the Church: let such a one examine himselfe by that which Gregory faith: Perhaps (saith he) he that desireth Prelacie in the Church, hath a purpose to doe good. Sed cum percepti Principatus officio perfrui feculariter coepit, libenter obliuiscitur, quicquid religiose cogitauit. Quia nequaquam valet in culmine humilitatem discere, qui in imis positus non desinit superbire. Nam plerunque in occupatione regiminis, ipse quoque boni operis vsus perditur, qui in tranquillitate tenebatur: quia quieto mari recte nauem & imperitus se nauta dirigit: turbato autem tempestatis fluctibus, etiam peritum se nautam confundit. Quid namque est potestas culminis, nisi tempestas mentis? Inter haec itaque, quid sequendum est, quid tenendum, nisi vt virtutibus pollens, coactus ad regimen veniat, virtutibus vacuus ne coactus accedat? But when he hath begun, worldly to inioy the office of his received principalitie, he willingly forgets, whatso-
