---
reading: burton-simony
page: 64
pdf_page: 80
sortable_pagination_id: 80
---

euer bee religiously purposed. Because hee cannot learne humilitie when hee is aloft, who while hee was below ceased not to bee proud. For commonly in the negotiation of Gouernment, the very vse of good workes is also lost, which in the tranquillitie of a priuate life was preserued. Sith in a calme sea, euen an vnexpert Mariner can direct and guide his ship, and himselfe: but in a tempestuous sea, euen a skilfull Pilot confounds himselfe. For what else is the power of regiment, but the tempest of the minde? Therefore in these cases, what is to be followed, what to be obserued, but that hee which excelleth in vertues, should come to place of gouernment by compulsion, but he that is destitute of vertues, should vpon no termes, no not by compulsion be drawne vnto it. And hee concludes: Considerandum est ei, qui curam populi electus Praesul suscipit, quia quasi ad agrum medicus accedit. Si ergo in eius opere passiones viuunt, qua presumptione percussum mederi properat, qui in facie vulnus portat? Therefore (faith he) the elect Prelate, which takes vpon him the care of the people, must consider, that hee comes as a Physician to a sicke Patient. If therefore passions doe yet liue in his practise, with what presumption doth hee hasten to heale the diseased, when hee carrieth his wound in his owne face?

But will some say, Qui Episcopatum desiderat, bonum opus desiderat. Ergo licet mihi Episcopatum desiderare. He that desireth a Bishopricke, desireth a worthy worke. Therefore it is lawfull for mee to desire a Bishopricke. Let the same Gregory make answere, vpon the very same words, in his eight Chapter of the foresaid Booke, which hee intituleth thus: De iis, qui praeesse concupiscunt, & ad vsum suae libidinis instrumentum Apostolici sermonis arripiunt: Ti.3.1. Notandum (faith hee) quod illo in tempore hec dicitur, qua quisquis praeerat, primus ad martyrij tormenta ducebatur. Tunc ergo laudabile fuit Episcopatum querere, quando per hunc, quemquam dubium non erat ad supplicia grauiora peruenisse. Vnde ipsum quoque Episcopatus Officium boni operis expressione definitur, cum dicitur, si quis Episcopatum desiderat, bonum opus desiderat. Ipse ergo sibi testis est, quia Episcopatum non appetit, qui non per hunc, boni operis Ministerium, sed honoris gloriam qua-
