---
reading: burton-simony
page: 66
pdf_page: 82
sortable_pagination_id: 82
---

beloued brethren, not to commit the sinnes of Simoniacall heresie,
vnder pretence of almes. For it is one thing to doe almes for sinne
sake, another thing to commit sinne for almes sake. This is like
Sauls sacrifice; reproued and reiected by Samuel, 1.Sam. 15.
Or like the high Priests Charitie, who with Judas treason-
money, by some called Simonie, bought, forsooth, a field to
bury Strangers in. But for all this charitable werke, by di-
uine Ordination(as Lyra saith) the field got such a Name, as
could neuer bee washed off. For it is called, the field of blood
to this day. Matth. 27.8. And mought such charitable
workes, as they are done by Simonie, so for euer beare the
brand of Simonie. As a famous Curtizan in Rome, hauing
built a faire house, caused this Motto to bee set ouer the
front of the gate, well beseeming her owne shamelesse
front, Edificauerunt Peccatrices: Curtizans built this house.

### CHAP. XIII.

Of the vnreasonablenesse of Simonie, particularly in regard of the Office and Function of a B. or Minister of the Gospel.

The Apostle, 1.Tim.3.1. saith, This is a true saying; if a man desire the Office of a Bishop (or Minister of the Gospel) hee desireth a good worke. Now such is the Office of a Bishop, and Minister of Christ, as if it bee well weighed, a man will bee well aduised how hee seekes or sues for such an Office, much lesse be at the cost to purchase it with any price. For the Office of the sacred Order of Bishops is not altogether so easie, as the world takes it to be. Origen saith, He that desireth the Office of a Bishop, to purchase glory
