---
reading: burton-simony
page: 68
pdf_page: 84
sortable_pagination_id: 84
---

and more acceptable to men, then the Office of a Bishop, or a Priest, or Deacon, if the Office bee carelesly, or men-pleasingly performed: but with God nothing more miserable, wofull, and damnable. Also that there is nothing in this life, and most of all at this time, more difficult, painfull, and perilous, then the Office of a Bishop, Priest, or Deacon : but with God nothing more blessed, if the combat bee so managed, as our Captaine commandeth. And hence were those many teares, which certaine brethren, not knowing the cause, saw mee shed in the Citie, in the time of mine Ordination. And the same Father elsewhere faith: vpon the words of the Apostle, Qui Episcopatum desiderat, bonum opus desiderat: Exponere voluit, quid sit Episcopatus; quia nomen est operis, non honoris: vt intelligat non se esse Episcopum qui praeesse dilexerit, non prodesse. And a little after he faith, Locus superior, sine quo regi populus non potest, etsi ita teneatur, atque administretur, ut decet, tamen indecenter appetitur. The Superiour place (of the B.p) without which the people cannot bee gouerned, although it be so maintained and managed, as is meete, yet it is vnseemely for a man to hunt after it. So that (faith he) Ocium sanctum quarit charitas veritatis; negotium iustum suscipit necessitas charitatis. Quam Sarcinam si nullus imponit, percipienda atque intuenda vacandum est veritati: si autem imponitur, suscipienda est propter charitatis necessitatem. In this case, faith he, The loue of truth seekes a holy retirednesse: and it is the necessitie of charitie that vndergoeth a iust imployment. Which burthen if no man impose it, then a man is the more vacant to exercise his priuate life in the study of the Truth: but if it bee imposed, it must bee vndergone for very necessitie of charitie. Saint Chrysostom faith: I suppose no man, though neuer so thirstie of glory, would euer bee made a Bishop, vnlesse necessitie impose it vpon him. For who is sufficient for these things. For as that holy man further faith: If thou knewest (faith he) that the Bishop ought to beare the burthen of all; that if others be angrie, they are pardoned, but not he: that others sinning may haue excuse, but not he: thou wouldest not so hasten, thou wouldest not so runne to the Prelacy. For hee (the Bishop) is exposed to all tongues, is subject to all censures, both of the wise and vnwise: he
