---
reading: burton-simony
page: 69
pdf_page: 85
sortable_pagination_id: 85
---

perplexed with perpetuall cares, night and day. He is enuied of many, he is obserued of many. Doe not tell me of those, who are ambitious of fauour, that loue to sleepe, that come to their Episcopall office, as to a bed of rest. I speake not of these: but of those, which watch for your soules, which preferre the saluation of their people before their owne safetie. Tell me, if a man haue but ten children vnder his gouernment, liuing continually with him, he is forced without intermission to take care of them: what then shall not he suffer, that hath so many, not domesticks, but such as haue others also vnder their authoritie? But hee is in great honour, say they. What honour? Three halfe-peny wretches doe raile vpon him in the market place. Why doth he not then stop their mouthes! A proper reason. For now you are farre wide of the office of a Bishop. Moreouer, vnlesse he giue himselfe to please all, both those that liue idlely, and those that follow their businesse, hee beares a thousand accusations on euery side. None is afraid to accuse and traduce him. For they are afraid to speake euill of Princes, but not of Bishops, because the feare of God is of no force with them. Who can expresse their sollicitous care in preaching and teaching? Who can tell what plunges they are put to in their elections? His minde differeth nothing from a ship tossed with waues. He is pressed on euery side with his friends, and with his foes, with his owne kindred, and with forreners. If he be vehement and zealous, they say, he is cruell: if not vehement, they say, hee is cold. But these two contraries must concurre, that so he may neither bee contemned, nor hated. How is hee preuented, how pressed with businesse? How many is hee inforced to offend, volens nolens? How many must he rebuke, will he, nill hee. I speake not vnaduisedly, but as I am affected, and as I thinke. I doe not thinke, that among Priests there are many, that shall be saued, but farre more that shall perish. The reason is, because this Office requireth an high and excellent spirit. For there bee many occasions to driue him from his owne disposition, and he hath neede of many eyes. Doe yee not see how many things are behoofull for a Bishop to haue, that he be apt to teach, that he be patient in suffering of euils, that hee bee constant and faithfull in the Doctrine of the Word? What a difficulty is this? And when others sinne, it is imputed to him. I neede say
