---
reading: burton-simony
page: 7
pdf_page: 23
sortable_pagination_id: 23
---

non Beneficium : curam, non Curam, But at the last, hee must confesse (and therein hee mockes not) that hee hath certaine Lockes, whereon neuer came Razor; that is, certaine Flockes or Fleeces neuer yet polled from the Church, or not touched (at least in his owne sleepie sense and apprehension) with the Razor of Conuiction vnder the name of Simony. The temporall benefit indeed hee hath bought, to wit, the Glebe, the Tythe, and the like: proue this to bee Simony, & then I shall be as other men. And in this his conceit, hee is as strong as Sampson: yea, so confident, that hee dare say, that Tythes are meere Temporalls, Lay Fees. But as Sampson, after his lockes were shauen, neuer thought that his strength was gone, till by wofull proofe he found it: So our Simon here, thinkes all is well with him, so long as he strongly imagineth that his Tythes are but Temporalls; and so long, no Simonist, not as other men.

But now Sampson, the Philistins bee vpon thee; yea, stronger then the Philistins, A Troope of Truths doth beset thee. What? Tythes temporall? In what Grammer haue you learned to ioyne this Substantiue and Adictiue together? I am sure not in Gods Booke? There is no such incongruitie, no Solecisme, no false construction there. There he deserues the Ferula, the Rod, a ve, that incongruously calls Sower, Sweet: and Sweet, Sower; Good, Euill; and Euill, Good: And shall hee escape, that calls Sacred, Secular? Tythes, Temporalls? Or he, who saith, Giue vnto Caesar the things that are Gods? Let mee but a little shake Aarons Rod, and Christs many-corded Whip, at our indisciplined Simon, to make him at least attentiue to what the Scripture faith. Tythes, I am sure, were once Sacred; and what God hath once Sacred, call not thou Common. But when Sacred? When? Why not, when Adam was first Created? When hee was endued with the ten Moralls of the Law? And is it not more then probable, that among the ten, the Lord allotted a Tythe, for the maintenance of his seruice: Seeing among the ten hee appointed a time for his
