---
reading: burton-simony
page: 70
pdf_page: 86
sortable_pagination_id: 86
---

no more (faith he) if but one depart this life, vninitiated, or vnbaptized, is hee not altogether condemned? For the destruction of one onely soule is such a losse, as it cannot possibly bee estimated. For if the saluation of one soule was so precious, that for this the Sonne of God became Man and suffered so great things: consider then what punishment the destruction of one soule will bring. Doe not tell me therefore, The Priest hath sinned, or the Deacon: all their sins redound vpon the head of those, that chose them. Therefore if any shall approach to the chiefe Priesthood (to wit, a Bishoprick) as to a function full of care and trouble, no man will easily vndertake it. But now we doe no otherwise affect this Dignitie, then as ciuill Magistracies, namely, that we may be magnified and honoured with men, while we are cast out of fauour with God. What gaine doth this honour bring? How doth it appeare to be nothing? When thou shalt desire the Priesthood, set before thee on the one side those accusations, which it necessarily must suffer; on the other side a life free from publike imployment, and compare the measure of the punishment. For if thou sinnest the sin of a priuate man, thou shalt not suffer so great punishment in comparison: but if thou sinnest in the Priesthood, thou art vndone. A Bishop cannot sinne priuily. For it is well with him, if not offending, he can bee free from slanders, much lesse if hee doe offend, can hee escape. If either hee bee angrie, or laugh, or desire a little sleepe to refresh him, there bee many readie to taunt him, many that will be offended, many that will censure him, and prescribe Lawes vnto him, many that will renew the memorie of former Bishops, and despise the present, and they doe it not to praise them, but to pinch him. Warre is sweet to the vnexpert. For wee fight not against those, who by might oppresse the poore, nor haue we the courage to stand in defence of the flocke: but after the example of these shepherds, whom Ezechiel mentioneth, We kill and deuour. Which of vs is so carefull and sollicitous for the sheepe of Christ, as Iacob was for Labans flock? Who can expresse what cold he suffered by night? And doe not tell mee of any night-watchings, or any such care taken. It is altogether contrarie. Princes and Rulers inioy not so great honour, as he that is a Prelate of the Church. If he goe into the Kings Court, who hath the precedence of him? There is
