---
reading: burton-simony
page: 71
pdf_page: 87
sortable_pagination_id: 87
---

is an vniuersall decay and corruption. These things I speake, not to inforce shame vpon you, but to restraine your eager desires. But perhaps there is none such: God grant it that so our wordes may vanish into the aire, and proue but wordes; and so may proue as potions, which being presented by the Patients instant recouery, are throwne away. For considering the waight of a Bishops office, and the weaknesse of many aduanced to high places, I cannot imagine, faith he, that any man, though neuer so ambitious, vnlesse meere necessitie constraine him, would euer bee consecrated a Bishop. Thus farre this holy and good Bishop Saint Chrysostome.

The same Father in another place, faith: Not onely ciuill Magistrates, but also Prelates of the Churches must render an account of their administration: and that a more strict and mightie account, then any other. For to whom the ministery of the Word is committed there shall be a rigid examination: whether he hath neither through slothfulnesse, nor enuy omitted to speake any thing which hee ought to haue spoken, and hath declared by his deedes that hee hath taught all good duties, and hath concealed nothing from his hearers, which might be profitable for them. Againe, He that hath obtained a Bishopricke, the more highly he is exalted to the top of honor, the more strict reckoning shall be required of him, not onely of his doctrine, and care for the poore, but also of his examination of those that are to be ordained Ministers, and of infinite other duties. And in his Commentarie vpon Titus: The higher the dignitie is, the greater are the dangers of a Minister. To omit other things, which fall out daily; if at any time it happen, that either a friend, or some other occasion bee a meanes to promote an vnworthy person to the dignitie of a Bishopricke, and commit vnto him the waightie gouernment of a Citie, into what tormenting fires doth he throw himselfe? For he that in his more priuate manner of life hath not beene religious, certainly hee must needes bee much worse, when hee comes to vndertake the gouernment of the Church. Therefore it is by all meanes to bee wished, that hee that hath beene formerly endued with pietie, he may remaine so still, hauing taken vpon him such a ministeriall function. For now, both vaine glorie doth more eagerly haunt him, together with the loue of
