---
reading: burton-simony
page: 72
pdf_page: 88
sortable_pagination_id: 88
---

of mony, and supercilious pride: whenas Domination it selfe begets a licentiousnesse of being offensiue, and contumelious, and to giue ill language, and innumerable other. And if hee that offends one soule, had better haue a mill-stone hanged about his necke, and be drowned in the bottom of the Sea: then he that shall Scandalize so many Soules, and whole Cities, and People, Men, Women, Children, Citizens, Countrimen, his neighbours, and others further off, which are vnder his charge, what shall he suffer? Therefore such a man hath more need of the grace and peace of God; for vnlesse these bee the prop of his gouernment, all must perish, and fall to the ground. For although thou beest neuer so expert in gouerning, vnlesse in this thy gouernment, thou hast that grace and peace which is of God: the storme will inuolue and drowne in the deepe, both thy ship, and those that saile with thee. For which cause, I am possessed with a great admiration of those men, which are so desirous of such burthens. Thou most vnhappy and miserable of all men, doest thou not see what that is, which thou so desirest? If a man diligently weigh the truth of the matter, such a one is not aduanced to a Lordship, but rather he is a seruant to innumerable Lords, which doe continually couet, and speake contrary things. So he and much more to this purpose. And vpon the Epistle to the Colossians, We doe execute an Ambassage. But we desire not this honour for our selues, God forbid: for we know the vilenesse of it: but for your sakes, that those things which are vttered by vs, you may the more diligently attend vnto, that you may receiue profit thereby, lest you heare slothfully and negligently the things which are deliuered. Let no man attend to mee, but to the dignitie of my Ambassage. So this holy Bishop.

In a word, Erasmus in his Epistle Dedicatorie, before Saint Chrysostomes Commentarie vpon that Epistle to the Galatians, saith, that a Bishop sustaines three persons: one, of a Father, in his Sacerdotall authoritie: another, of a Mother in the desire of bringing forth, and bringing vp her children: a third, of a Nurse, in feeding the Soule with wholesome Doctrine. And as Aaron might not enter into the Tabernacle and Sanctuarie, but with his golden Bels, or else he must die: so the Minister of the
