---
reading: burton-simony
page: 73
pdf_page: 89
sortable_pagination_id: 89
---

the Gospell must haue the golden Bels of the Gospell alwayes Sounding in his mouth, whereby the sheepe of Christ may be fed.

Seeing then that the office of a Bishop is attended with so many cares, exercised with so many duties, inuolued in so many dangers, exposed to so many stormes, obnoxious to so heauy iudgements, liable to such sharpe censures: who can blame Saint Chrysostome for admiring, how any man should ambitiously seeke & pursue after such places, much lesse bee at the cost to purchase them? Yea, how many, waighing with themselues the insupportable burthen of this Office, which would make the shoulders of Angels to stoope vnder it, haue not onely refused it being offered (and that not with a formall Nolo, nolo) but haue hid themselues; and runne from it as farre as they could. How often did Nilus, a holy man of God, seriously and really refuse a Bishoprick so often vrged vpon him? who at length in the middest of his feruent prayer, which hee offered vp to God, yeelded vp his spirit to him that gaue it. Besides, sundrie of the Fathers, and those whom Claudius Espencaeus mentioneth, de fuga Episcopatus, that shunned those high places, as measuring them rather by their waight, then by their height: wee could produce examples at home, as of that learned Deane Nowell, of reuerend memorie, and that learned and godly Gilpin, who both liued within the memorie of this present age, when both there was so much grace in the World, as freely to offer, and in them as constantly, as modestly to refuse.

Gaspar Contarenus, a learned Cardinall, one that liued, and was one in the Councell of Trent, but who was much more honest then many of his fellowes, writing of the office of a Bishop, hath these words: Episcopus medius est inter diuinos spiritus, & humanum genus. Ex quo perspicuum est, Oportere Episcopum tum Angelica, tum humana naturae quadam ratione participem esse: quod cum de se nullus, quanquam virtutibus ornatissimus, polliceri possit: idcirco Episcopatum optare, absque arrogantiae crimine, aut auaritia, aut ambitionis, nequit illas. A Bishop (saith hee) is a middle person betweene the diuine
