---
reading: burton-simony
page: 74
pdf_page: 90
sortable_pagination_id: 90
---

diuine Spirits, and humane kind. Whence it is plaine, that a Bishop in some regard ought to partake both of the Angelicall, and the humane Nature: which thing, seeing no man, although the most vertuous can promise of himselfe: therefore for any to desire a Bishopricke, he cannot doe it without suspicion of arrogancy, or of auarice, or of ambition. But the want of the due consideration of the waightinesse of a Bishops office, hauing opened a wide window in the Church for such arrogant, auaricious, and ambitious climing spirits to enter at, that come not in by the doore, gaue the same Author occasion a little after in the same Booke, to vtter this lamentation of that present state of the Church of Rome: Non possum hoc in loco non magnopere miserari nostrae tempestatis calamitatem, cum paucos admodum Christiani populi moderatores comperias, qui degant in ciuitatibus fidei eorum commissis. Verum satis officio suo fecisse putant, si procuratori regendam urbem tradiderint, ipsi vero reditibus potiantur; ac magni quidem cuiusdam in Romana Curia pompam comitantur, regnorumque tractant, ac bellorum negotia; de populo vero, cui praesunt, an in Christiana Religione proficiat, an deficiat, ne nuncium quidem accipiunt, egenoso, gregis sui omnino negligunt & ignorant: Hoccine est Episcopum gerere? Hoccine Discipulos Christi imitari, praeceptaque Euangelica seruare? Probus ergo Episcopus operam dabit, ne alteri tradat gregem suum curandum, sed quam breuissimo tempore ab ouili aberit, nisi aliqua ratione a Pontifice euocatus alicui officio inseruiat, quod ad emolumentum Christianae Reipublicae spectet. Verum non hanc dari sibi occasionem optet, neque tale quid ambiat; sed aegre ac fere inuitus huiusmodi onus suscipiat; quo expedito non aliud procuret, sed quam citissime ad gregem redeat. I cannot here (saith hee) but greatly pity the calamitie of our time, when you shall finde very few Gouernours of the Christian people, that reside in those Cities committed to their charge; but thinke they haue performed their dutie sufficiently, if they shall commit the gouernment of the Citie to a Proctor, while themselues inioy the reuenues, and they accompanie the pompe and traine of some great one in the Court of Rome, and doe manage the affaires of States, and of the Warres, but of the people ouer whom they beare rule.
