---
reading: burton-simony
page: 75
pdf_page: 91
sortable_pagination_id: 91
---

rule, whither they goe forward, or backward in Christian Religion, they doe not so much as beare one message; and for the poore of their flocke, they are altogether negligent, and ignorant of them. Is this to be a Bishop? Is this to imitate the Disciples of Christ, and to obserue the Euangelicall precepts? Therefore a good Bishop shall labour, not to commit his flocke to anothers Cure, but to bee absent from the Fold as little space as may bee, vnlesse for some reason he be called away by the Pope for some speciall seruice, for the good of the Christian common-wealth. But let him not wish or desire this occasion to be giuen him, nor let him make suite for any such thing; but let him very hardly, and in a manner vnwillingly vndertake this taske; which being dispatched, let him not procure another, but with all speede let him returne to his flocke: so he. As Cardinall Poole, being intreated by a Bishop for one moneths absence from his flocke, notwithstanding hee had admonished him formerly not to leaue his flocke: answered (giuing him leaue, but for no longer time) I shall take this comfort by your departure, that you shall bee beaten the lesse. This Cardinall also being in election and nomination for the Popedome, and being charged with ambition in ouer-hastie aspiring to that Dignitie: answered, That hee thought not the burthen of that great office to be so light, but that he was of the minde, that it was rather to be feared, then desired. As for them, which vnderstood not, and thought more basely of so great a place, he lamented their case, and was sorry for them.

Deuout Bernard complaining also of the course of his times, saith, among many other things, in his Ser. ad Cler.: Quem dabis mihi de numero Episcoporum, qui non plus inuigilet Subditorum euacuandis marsupiis, quam vitiis extirpandis? Vbi est, qui flectat iram? Vbi est, qui praedicet annum placabilem Domino? Propterea relinquamus istos, quia non sunt Pastores, sed traditores, & imitemur illos, qui viuentes in carne, plantauerunt Ecclesiam sanguine suo. Et quidem isti sortiti sunt Ministerii locum, sed non zelum. Successores omnes cupiunt esse, imitatores pauci. Vtinam tam vigiles reperirentur ad curam, quam alacres currunt ad Cathedram, &c. Whom wilt thou shew mee among all the row of Bishops, who is not more vigilant in emptying his
