---
reading: burton-simony
page: 77
pdf_page: 93
sortable_pagination_id: 93
---

principally necessarie: to wit, That they enter in by the doore, that they containe themselues in humilitie, that they eschew Auarice, that they studie to keepe cleannesse as well in heart, as in bodie. But what doth it awayle to bee canonically chosen (which is to enter in by the doore) and not to liue canonically? The Lord said to the twelue, Haue not I chosen you twelue, and one of you is a Deuill? Lord Iesus, seeing the election was in thine owne power, and thou hadst none to contradict, or controle thee, why didst thou chuse a Deuill? Why, good Iesus, didst thou not chuse a good, a iust, and a holy man, such as Peter was? Or if thou chusest a Deuill, why dost thou boast of it? Brethren, so doth Iesus now, chusing many Deuill-bishops. Where (alas!) shall we find Bishops, who after they haue got the dignitie, containe themselues in humilitie? For pride prouokes them to aspire to so great a dignitie, to make an impudent irruption into Christs sheepefolde; though notwithstanding the Lord saith by the Psalmist, The proud man shall not dwell in the midst of my house. Woe is me, O Lord Iesus, if I shall be in thy house, and not in the midst of thy house: for thou art alwayes in the midst. But these not so. They are with Iesus, but not in the midst of his house, because they loue and liue in pride, extolling their Parents that promoted them, but despising and depressing the poore. They liue a naughtie life, and would haue their people to liue so too. And therefore they are compared to the Apostate Angel, which said in his heart, I will plant my Seat vpon the North Pole. What is this, that the Deuil will pitch his Seat vpon the North? But that euery proud and impious man, doth either aspire or vsurpe principalitie ouer such as bee like him, such as are remote from the heate of charitie, and from the light of wisedome? This and much more this deuout man.

Now to draw all that hath beene said in this Chapter, by those holy and ancient men of the Church, to a corollary, or conclusion: If such be the Office of a Bishop; if (as Origen saith) it makes the ambitious drunke with vaine-glory: If (as Saint Cyril) to bee punished with fearefull flames; if hee must render a strict account for himselfe, and for all vnder his iurisdiction: If (as Saint Augustine) no-thing
