---
reading: burton-simony
page: 79
pdf_page: 95
sortable_pagination_id: 95
---

bee aboue a man, of an Angelicall spirit; if the very desire and seeking of it, imply arrogancie, auarice, and ambition; if it bee not enough to serue his Cure by a deputie; if it giue him no dispensation to bee a Courtier, and Negotiatour; if thus hee bee vnlike Christ, and his Apostles : If (as Poole) it be so dangerous to be Non-resident; if a Bishoppricke be rather to bee feared, then desired: If (as Bernard) it be vsually made rather a secular merchandize, then a spirituall meanes to gaine soules vnto God; if such bee to bee abandoned, as betrayers, not shepheards; hauing the seat, not the zeale; being successors, not imitators; if any ambitious Bishop be a Iudas, a Deuill, an Apostate Angel, that would haue all like himselfe to domineere ouer: if thus hee be excluded from inioying of Christ: if this Office be a Ministration, not a domination; then to say no more, but what so many holy, graue, learned Fathers haue said alreadie: What reason can any reasonable man pretend, to excuse not onely the purchase, but the least pursuite of such a preferment, from the imputation of extreame vnreasonablenesse?

### CHAP. XIIII.

### Of the Censures, and Penalties of Simonie and Simonists.

Come wee now to obserue the censures and penalties, which haue been generally imposed vpon Simonie, and Simoniacks. Aquinas following his Ancients, calls Simonie, Haresis quadam. Gregory calls it, The prime Heresie in the Primitive Church. Altare vel Decimas, vel Spiritum Sanctum emere vel vendere, Simoniacam Haresin esse nullus fidelium ignorat: To buy or sell the Altar (as the Sacrificer doth his Masse) or Tythes, or the Holy Ghost, there is none of all the faithfull, that knoweth not this to bee Simoniacall Heresie. Irenaus
