---
reading: burton-simony
page: 8
pdf_page: 24
sortable_pagination_id: 24
---

his seruice, euen the Sabbath Day, the Sanctification whereof, Tythes were properly to attend vpon? Tythes then, no doubt, were sacred from the beginning of Adams creation. For else, when did Abraham learne to pay tythe of All to Melchisedech, the Priest of the most high God? Or what moued Iacob to vow the paying of Tythes? Was it onely from the Example of his grandfather? Or were his Tythes onely voluntary and arbitrary, till by vow made necessary? Why not then his other seruice, which he then vowed, which he was bound to performe, though hee had not vowed it at all? His vow was but a stronger Bond to hold and helpe him, to the better performance of that dutie, which notwithstanding was due without a vow. As our solemne vow in Baptisme is but a stronger Bond to tye vs to that obedience to God, which wee ought most carefully to performe, no lesse, then if wee had not vowed at all.

But if as yet you deny Tythes to bee Consecrate and Sacred, by diuine instinct or institution, as wanting expresse precept: yet at least you your selfe cannot but confesse they began then to be sacred, when God said (Leuit.27.30.) All the Tythe of the Land, both of the Seed of the ground, and the fruit of the Trees, is the Lords; it is holy to the Lord. Yea, so holy, so sacred, that (as in the next Verse) If any man shall redeeme any of his Tythe, he shall adde the fifth part thereto. And euery Tythe of Bullocke, and of Sheep, and of all that goeth under the Rod, The tenth shall be holy unto the Lord, v.32. Yea, so holy, as v.33. He shall not looke if it be good or bad, neither shall he change it, else if he change it, both it, and that it was changed with all, shall be holy, and it shall not be redeemed. Loe then, how sacred Tythes bee ratified by a double Tense, They are holy, and, They shall bee holy to the Lord: As Iacob confirmed his sonnes blessing, I haue blessed him, and hee shall bee blessed. And where it is said, That the Tenth Is holy to the Lord, * a Learned and Reuerend Prelate of our Church in his Booke of Tythes, hath out of the Present Tense, drawne
