---
reading: burton-simony
page: 80
pdf_page: 96
sortable_pagination_id: 96
---

Ireneus calls Simon Magus, The Father of all Heretickes. Yea, saith Aquinas, The impious Heresie, of the Macedonians, and of those of his Sect, impugners of the Deitie of the Holy Ghost, is more tolerable, then that of the Simonists: For those in their dotage, yet confessed, that the Holy Ghost was a Creature, and seruant of the Father and the Sonne: But they doe make the same Holy Ghost to be their owne seruant. For hee that takes upon him to buy or sell any thing, takes upon him also to bee the master and proprietary of that, which hee so buyeth or selleth.

Yea, so odious is the sinne of Simonie, that Pope Deodate said. That no Catholike is to bee refused, but, for auouching the Truth, and to make knowne the madnesse of Simonie is to bee exhorted with most earnest intreatie. For, saith he, none is so vile or infamous, which may not be admitted for a competent witnesse against a Simoniacke, as being the most vile and infamous of all men. Therefore euen a bond-slaue, a whoore, a criminall person, may accuse a Simonist, yea, euen a seruant his master. And euery sinfull man may sing a Masse, But a Simonist may not. So he.

But some will say, This is but the Brutum Fulmen of a Pope. Yea, it ought so much the more to make vs, whom the condition of so many Popes hath made to abominate the very name of Pope, to bee afraide, and to startle at the very name of Simonie, more then at a cracke of Thunder. If Heathenish Abimelech so highly honour Marriage, and the sacred Lawes thereof, as hee sharpely reproues Abraham, for hazarding his faire wife: how shall not faithfull Abraham and Sara blush the more at such a Mans reproofe?

Gregory saith: Specialiter, &c. Let both the Clergie and people, the Electors, specially and absolutely know, that that man is not onely vnworthy of the Priesthood, but will bee found also obnaxius and culpable of other crimes, whosoeuer hee bee that presumeth to buy the gift of God with money. So that the like punishment and penaltie is equally due, both to the elected, and to the
