---
reading: burton-simony
page: 81
pdf_page: 97
sortable_pagination_id: 97
---

the Electors, if they shall assay to violate the sinceritie of Priesthood with a sacrilegious intent. So hee.

Whence we may learne, that the sinne of Simonie neuer goeth alone, whether in the Buyer, or in the Seller: but as the Master Bee, it is attended with a swarme of other enormities. In the Canons of the Apostles (so called) Si quis Episcopum, &c. If any Bishop or Priest, or Deacon shall obtaine this dignitie by money, let both him and his Ordainers bee degraded and quite cut off from the communion of Saints, as Simon Magus was by Peter. Aquinas saith; No man vpon any respect ought to receiue Ordination by a Bishop, whom hee knoweth to haue beene Simoniacally promoted. And if hee be ordained by him, hee receiueth not the Execution of his Order, although hee wist not the Bishop to bee a Simoniacke, but hath need of a dispensation: Yea, saith another; Hee that is a Simoniacke in Order, albeit he be a Bishop, none can dispense with him, no not our Lord the Pope (vt ajunt) because such hath a cracke Character, which being notwithstanding indeleble, hee cannot renounce, and so the sinne cannot be purged. (Although Gratien say, that the Pope may as well dispense with it, as with a Thiefe, though hee restore not the theft.) So that the case of Simonie in Ordination, may seeme not much unlike the Popish Transubstantiation, which stands vpon such tickle points, Iffs, and Ands, as if the * intention of the Priest, iust at the word of their consecration, be wanting, or wandring some other way, as Baals Ghost was, while his Prophets prayed vnto him; or if the Bishop, that gaue that Priest Ordination, had not in the time thereof a right intention; or if the Bishop, that consecrated that Bishop, wanted in the very act a right intention; and so vpwards; If (as they say) any of these haue failed, there is like to bee no Creator created of the Creature, no Transubstantiation: So in Simonie: If a man obtaine a Bishopricke by Simonie, he receiueth not the power of the execution of his Order, and consequently hee can conferre no power vpon any whom hee shall ordaine, because, Nemo Dat, quod non habet. And being so, it should follow, that all the Ministry ordained by him, & so successiuely downward be.
