---
reading: burton-simony
page: 82
pdf_page: 98
sortable_pagination_id: 98
---

becomes a meere nullitie. Whereupon Gregory in the Glosse saith: Can a man receiue Orders of him, whom hee knoweth to bee Simoniacally promoted to his Bishopricke? Dico, quod non. Yea, although he knew it not: and by receiuing Orders of him, hee receiueth not withall the Execution, sith the Ordinator hath none himselfe. And a man (saith he) ought rather to suffer Excommunication, then receiue Ordination of such a one. If it bee so, then what a flaw and breach doth Simonie make in a Ministrie? Yet Pope Urban doth somewhat mitigate the matter. Si qui, &c. If any bee ordained of Simoniackes not Simoniacally, and can proue, that when they were ordained, they knew not their Ordeiners to bee Simoniackes in Order; and that at that time, the Ordinations of such were holden in the Church for Canonicall, wee mercifully beare with them, so as they liue worthily. But they that wittingly suffer themselues to bee consecrated (or rather execrated) of Simoniackes, wee adiudge their Consecration to be altogether voyd. So hee. Also Nic. Iunior & Alex. 2. De catero Statuimus, &c. Wee doe further enact, that if any hence forward shall suffer himselfe to bee consecrated of him, whom hee doubts not to be a Simoniacke (in Order) both the Consecrater, and the Consecrated shall undergoe like damnation, and both of them being deposed, let them repent and doe penance, and so remaine deprived of their proper dignitie. And againe, Erga Simoniacos, &c. Towards Simoniackes wee haue decreed, that no mercie be extended for the retaining of their Dignitie, but according to Canonicall Sanctions and Decrees of Holy Fathers, Wee doe by Apostolicke Authoritie adiudge them to bee altogether condemned and deposed. What terrible thunderclaps bee here. Now if the case bee so, as the Disciples said about Diuorce, Then it is not good to Marry: So some man might say, Then it is not good to bee a Minister. But as our Lord said vpon another purpose in the said Chapter (Matth. 19.) when his Disciples said, Who then can bee saued? Hee answered, with men it is vnpossible, but with God all things are possible. But euery one shall beare his owne burthen. I will conclude with the Conclusion of the second Canon of the Councell of Calcedon: Si quis
