---
reading: burton-simony
page: 83
pdf_page: 99
sortable_pagination_id: 99
---

quis, &c. If any should mediate by any filthy and wicked giuing or receiuing, if he be a Clerke, Let him be degraded: if a Layicke, anathematized. Also the second Councell of Orleance, Can. 4. Si quis Sacerdotium, &c. If any shall through execrable ambition, by money, seeke the Priesthood, Let him bee a reprobate cast-away; because the sentence of the Apostle teacheth, That the gift of God ought not to bee obtained by the ballance of Money. Not a Councell almost, but hath a Thunderbolt against this sinne. Mediatores etiam Simonie eadem censura Ligantur; qui a solo Papa absoluentur: The Mediators also of Simonie are liable to the same censure, and they cannot be absolued, but onely of the Pope. A most inexpiable and hainous sinne, I wisse which onely the Pope can absolue. Wee will shut vp this, with that which is fathered vpon Saint Augustine, Ser. 37. ad Fratres in Eremo (though those Sermons be confessed to be none of his) Qui Sacramentum emit vel Ecclesiam, vel Prebendas, vel Ecclesiarum introitus, vel seculari potentia hoc pro se procurarit, sciat quod cum Gehezi & Iuda iam condemnatus est, iam Leprosus factus, iam de Templo Domini expellendus est. Hee that buyeth the Sacrament, or a Church, or a Prebend, or his admission into the Church, or hath procured this for himselfe by secular power; let him know, that with Gehezi and Iudas hee is alreadie condemned, now become a Leper, and now to bee expelled out of the Lords Temple.

And if wee should goe about to collect the Exemplary punishments inflicted by diuine hand vpon Simoniacall offenders, it would fill a whole Volume; yea, if wee could onely obserue many of the judgements of God, which haue remarkeably fallen vpon Sacrilegious Vsurpers and Simoniacall Traders, euen in this our Church, how, not onely Tythes improperly detained, but Patronages purchased, are posted off from man to man as Gods Arke among the Philistins (for what can rest out of the proper place?) from Citie to Citie, bringing a plague with it, whithersoeuer it came: How many Patrons haue beene driuen to sell away their owne Inheritance for abusing Gods Inheritance, and taking to themselues the houses of God in possession; How many
