---
reading: burton-simony
page: 85
pdf_page: 101
sortable_pagination_id: 101
---

rall, as Abel offered, de primogenitis, of the firstlings: Secondly, contemptuously, of the meanest, opposite to Abels fatlings. Thirdly, with an auerse or impious mind: for Cain brought, not Cain ipse, as it is said of Abel, Abel ipse, Abel himselfe brought, that is, with all his heart; for animus cuiusq; is est quisq; A mans soule is himselfe: Fourthly, proudly, as scorning himselfe to carry his Offering, therefore Cain ipse, is not expressed (as the learned note) as Abel ipse attulit: For this (I say) for offering sparingly, contemptuously, impiously, proudly, Cain was reiected, the Lord had no respect to him, and his offering. So that this impious minde of his towards God, begetting other sinnes, did quite cast him out from the presence of Gods grace and fauour, the greatest punishment in the world, as he himselfe confessed and complained of. Gehezi and his whole posteritie, how fearefully were they branded with an hereditarie leprosie, for the fathers only sinne of selling his Masters gift of healing. A stupendious example, and the more, if we doe but weigh the circumstances. For Gehezi receiued his two talents of Naaman onely after the cure, and not by any precontract, or fore-condition: also hee was not so couetous, as to take or demand All, that Naaman brought to present his Master withall; yea, more was forced vpon him, then he required. Againe, Naaman was a Syrian, a stranger, one whom perhaps hee should neuer see more, and one rich enough to spare such a small reward, as Gehezi thought hee might aswell take, as let him goe away free: Behold (saith he to himselfe) my Master hath spared this Aramite Naaman: as the Lord liueth, I will runne after him, and take something of him. But indeed he lyed to Naaman, and returning lyed againe to his Master (and perhaps he would haue most couragiously taken the Oath of Simonie vpon it: For the sinne of Simonie neuer goes alone) yet his taking, it was, that was expresly obiected vnto him, and for which hee was smitten with an inexpiable leprosie, that smitted and smote his whole Race. Now, if so direfull were his doome, but for so doing: what shall become of all those Patrons, who stand
