---
reading: burton-simony
page: 86
pdf_page: 102
sortable_pagination_id: 102
---

Stand not vpon a bare promise or intimation of gratuitie, but make their bargaine sure vpon the Naile, or vpon the Scale; as Iudas would not sell and betray Christ, before he saw and felt the money: that take all that commeth, and more too, if they can compasse it, and suffer their seruants also to make their best aduantage, so it be not to their owne hindrance? That respect not whether the Chapman be rich or poore, Syrian or Christian, good or bad, All is fish that commeth to his Net? Or this example of Gehezi may terrifie all such seruants of the Prophet, or of any Patron, who, howsoever their Master make a conscience of receiuing ought at the hands of Ministers, yet hee, forsooth, must haue a feeling in the businesse, else it shall goe but slowly forward. To omit Achans example, as being onely sacrilegious, not Simoniacall, but his punishment was fearefull. What a generall judgement of dearth was vpon all the Land of the Iewes, for onely defrauding God of his Tithes? And is not selling a Benefice, or Ecclesiasticall preferment equiualent to sacrilegious detayning of Tithes, and so a defrauding of God? For it is a snare to deuoure that which is sanctified, and after the vowes to enquire. Yee are cursed with a curse, euen this whole Nation. Why? Yee haue spoyled me, saith the Lord. Wherein? In Tithes and Offerings: therefore I haue cursed your blessings. O fearefull curse! But bring yee all the Tithes into the store-house: Marke, all the Tithes; abate none, either by way of Fine, or of Rent, either by manuall payment in grosse, or by annuall deduction. Else the curse will not away. Yea I will curse your blessings, saith God. What is this to vs? Surely when I consider, how like Tantalus we are perplexed amidst prosperitie, how pinched in the midst of plentie; How our Farmers (the staffes of State) neuer complayned more of want and penurie, then now, when their Barnes bee most full, and their Fields most fruitfull; Yea more, when in such abundance of that celestiall Bread, that bread of Life, the blessed Word of God, yet the soules of men in generall are so hunger-starued, so ill thriven, like Pharaohs leane Kine; when in such plentie of preaching and teach-
