---
reading: burton-simony
page: 87
pdf_page: 103
sortable_pagination_id: 103
---

teaching I see so little, little or no practice: May we not see, and may wee not say, that this curse is befallen Vs, I haue cursed your blessings? What might be the cause? Is there any other cause, but one? No other cause, but one, can wee reade of, for which, the Lord saith, I haue cursed your blessings; or, I haue cursed you with a curse. If Sacriledge and Simonie on all sides may be the cause: Hath not God cause enough to deale thus with vs? The Lord amend vs, that so hee may both lighten his heauie hand vpon vs, which wee cannot but feele for the present, and stay his heaued-vp hand, which we cannot but see threatning vs with greater judgements (if greater iudgements can be, then the cursing of our blessings) except wee repent. And repent wee doe not, vnlesse wee obey the Lords voyce, who saith there, Bring yee all the Tithes into the store-house, that there may bee meat in my house and proue me now herewith, saith the Lord, if I will not open the windowes of Heauen, and powre you out a blessing without measure. A Blessing without a Cursing. This the good King Hezechias and his whole Kingdome proued, when vpon the bringing in of all their Tithes and Offerings faithfully, they found such abundance, as Hezechias maruailed at the heapes: And Azarias the Priest answered him, that since the People brought their Tithes and Offerings, the Lord hath blessed his people, and this abundance is left. What should I here insert Baltasars profane drinking in the sacred Bowles, who in the midst of his jollitie saw that fearefull hand-writing vpon the wall? Dan. 5. And shall our Sacrilegists, or Simonists so securely carowse not onely in sacred bowles, but euen the bloud of mens soules, by either their Sacrilegious detayning in grosse, or their Simoniacall purloyning by peece-meale the maintenance of the Ministerie, which God hath ordayned for the saluation of the soules of his people?

Come we to the examples of the New Testament. With what a diuine zeale and fierie indignation was that meeke Lambe of God inflamed, when hee whipped those Buyers and Sellers out of the Temple, calling them Theeues, and cutting
