---
reading: burton-simony
page: 88
pdf_page: 104
sortable_pagination_id: 104
---

cutting them off from partaking with his Temple? For as Nazianzen saith: Quos Christus ciecit de Templo, nunquam Spiritus Christi sibi faciet Templum. Those whom Christ cast out of the Temple the Spirit of Christ wil neuer make his Temple; as being destitute and void of the grace of the holy Ghost. As Saint Ierome saith: In Simoniacis nulla spiritualis gratia operatur: In Simonists no spirituall grace hath any operation. Non enim operatur Spiritus Sanctus spiritualiter in perfidis mercimoniis auaritia: For the holy Spirit doth not spiritually worke in the perfidious merchandise of couetousnesse. And Innocentius hath a sentence no lesse fearefull: Simoniaci etsi fidem tenere videantur, infidelitatis tamen perditioni subyciuntur: Simoniacks, although they seeme to be of the true Faith, yet they lye vnder the perdition of Infidelitie. And Saint Ambrose: Simoniaci integritatem, & conscientiam puram fidei non habent: Simonists haue not the integritie, and pure conscience of Faith.

What shall I speake of Ananias and Saphira? How fearfully and dreadfully were they struck, for detayning part of that, which they had dedicated and deuoted to God, and to his Congregation, yea to the maintenance of the Apostles? And what should I speake of Simons curse, exemplarie indeede, but such as rather the Conscience, then the Sense apprehendeth, as being rather spirituall, then temporall; and yet both: For such Ecclesiasticall Chapmen pull vpon themselues an vniuersall curse, vpon their soules, by a depriuation euen of common grace, and ministeriall abilities: vpon their bodies and goods, by a diminution of strength and stay, health and wealth, life and liuelihood; nothing thriveth with them, all contayned in this, Thy money perish with thee, Thou hast & μερις, & η κληρον, neither part, nor lot in this matter. A Simonist is no Minister, by Saint Peters Doctrine.

And if wee adde hereunto the example of Heliodorus in the third Chapter of the second of Macchabees, let none blame it, because it is Apocryphall. For as Saint Ierome instructing the Lady Leta about the education of her daughter Paula, saith, Caueat omnia Apocrypha, qua non ad dogma-
