---
reading: burton-simony
page: 89
pdf_page: 105
sortable_pagination_id: 105
---

tum veritatem, sed ad signorum reuerentiam legat: Let her beware of all Apocryphall bookes, which yet shee may reade, not for truth of Doctrines, but for the reuerence of the examples in the storie: So of the truth of this example, let no man doubt. Saint Ambrose also mentioneth it vpon the like occasion. This Heliodorus being sent by King Seleucus to robbe the Temple, when no humble intreaties of the Priests & people would disswade him from his impious enterprise, hee was miraculously assaulted by a man on horse-backe in gilt armour; yea moreouer, he was fiercely set vpon, whipt, and scourged by two (in shew) young men; So that with much difficultie recouering from a deadly stound, & at the Priests prayers escaping with his life, He returnes home with this answere to his King, that if the King had any Enemies or Traitors, whom he would haue well punished, hee should but send them thither where he had beene. Iosephus reports, how Marcus Crassus hauing spoiled the Temple at Hierusalem of all that masse of treasure, which pious Pompey had forborne once to touch, was therefore himselfe and his whole Armie vtterly ouerthrowne at the passage of Euphrates. And in his sixt booke of the same, and sixteenth Chapter, he sheweth in the example of Iohn, one of the Seditions, that sacriledge committed by him in robbing the Temple of the Priests maintenance, was one of those forerunning sinnes, which hastened the finall and fatall ruine of the holy Citie. I might adde to these, many examples in profane stories, religiously obserued of Heathens themselues, inflicted by Diuine reuenge vpon their sacrilegious persons. But Esop may serue to summe them all vp in his Apologue of the Eagle, which snatching away the Sacrifice from off the Altar, catched withall a coale, which, carried with the Sacrifice to her Nest, set both her Nest and selfe on fire. The morall applies it selfe. And I pray God all sacrilegious Simonists may so apply it, and lay it to their hearts, that they may preuent hell fire prepared for the Deuill, and his angels, for Simon and all his Angels.

Now all these exemplarie punishments and iudgements that
