---
reading: burton-simony
page: 9
pdf_page: 25
sortable_pagination_id: 25
---

drawne this obseruation, That the Tenth began not now to bee sacred, or consecrated, but onely to bee appropriated for the time to the Leuites, concluding the Ordinance to be morally perpetuall from the Creation.

### CHAP. IIII.

Tythes in the New Testament proued to be equally Sacred with those in the Old, against the Simonists obiection: and consequently the definition of Simony, concluded according to the former definitions of it, by the Schooles and Canons.

Yea, faith our Simon, I deny not, but that the tenth was holy and sacred during the time of the Old Testament, but it ceaseth to be so now in the New. O Heresie, worthy of Simon himselfe! O Folly, well beseeming the Aramites! who being alreadie ouercome in the Mountaines, promised to themselues the Victorie in the Vally, Saying, The Lord is the God of the Mountaines, and not God of the Vallyes: And is the Lord the God of the Old Testament, and not God of the New? Yes, euen of the New also. For Marke: The Tythes were not said to bee holy to the Leuites, but to the Lord; Nor, that they were the Leuites, but the Lords? The Tythes is the Lords, it is holy to the Lord, Leuit.27.30. Therefore the Lord rebuking the Iewes for neglecting the payment of their Tythes, hee takes the wrong as done to himselfe, saying, Yee haue robbed Mee. Mal.3.8. Hee faith not, Yee haue spoyled the Leuite, and the Priest, but, yee haue spoyled Mee. Yf then the Lord himselfe, and not the Leuite bee intitled and interested in the proper right of Tythes, then certainely they are as sacred now in the New Testament, as euer they were in the Old. The Tythes are holy to the Lord. Lewit. 27.28. and they shall bee holy to the Lord, v. 32. They are holy (it was said then) to the Lord of the Old Testament, and they shall bee holy
