---
reading: burton-simony
page: 91
pdf_page: 107
sortable_pagination_id: 107
---

dier, that which thou wilt not giue to the Priest. God is alwayes readie to blesse, but hee is hindered by the malice of men. For Tithes are required of due: and they who will not pay them, doe inuade others goods. And looke how many poore soules in that Parish, where hee dwelleth that payeth not his Tithes, shall perish for hunger, of so many murthers shall he stand guiltie, before the Tribunall of the eternall Iudge: because that which God hath allotted for the poore, hee hath reserued to his owne vses. He therefore who desireth either to purchase to himselfe a reward, or to procure the pardon of his sinnes, let him pay his Tithes: Also let him not be negligent to giue almes of the Nine parts to the poore. Thus this holy Father.

Now for a Corollarie or Conclusion of this point touching the Censures of sacrilegious Simonists, I will make a briefe relation of those obseruations which Rebuffus hath collected in his last question of his Tract of Tithes. I omit to set downe his Authors quoted by him, referring that to the Reader at his pleasure, or leasure. Hee that payeth not his Tithes but either selleth them or detayneth any part of them, hee fighteth against God. Secondly, He shall be alwayes poore. In times past when foure kindes of Tithes were duely paid, men grew rich; Now when one is not well paid, men are brought to a Tenth, And the Lord doth not remoue their plagues. Thirdly, They are cursed of God with penurie, with pestilence, with sudden death, and with a perishing name. Fourthly, They shall want necessaries, that denie God their duties. Fiftly, They are the heires of eternall death. Sixtly, They shall bee subiect to bodily infirmities and diseases. Seuenthly, They shall be associated with the Deuils which (as some say) are the Tenth part of the Angels. Eightly, Hee that will not giue his due to God, shall giue that to the profane Souldier, which hee will not giue to the Priest. Ninthly, Such is a Thiefe, and infamous person. Tenthly, Such shall be guiltie before Gods Tribunall, of murthering so many poore soules, as haue perished for want of not paying the Minister maintenance. Eleuenthly, Such are sacrilegious persons, & consequently lyable to eternall damnation, and ought euery Lords day to be denounced by the Minister, excommunicate. Twelfthly, defrauders of Tithes ought
