---
reading: burton-simony
page: 92
pdf_page: 108
sortable_pagination_id: 108
---

ought to want Christian buriall. Thirteene, If such cannot bee compelled by Ecclesiasticall Censures, the Secular sword is to bee implored. Fourteene, Hee that oweth his Tithes, cannot denie them upon pretext of any debt due vnto Him; because Tithes admit no such compensation, nor any appeale. In a word, all Detayners or Defrauders of Tithes, in what manner soever, whether it be Sacrilegious, or Simoniacall, are the sonnes of perdition, notwithstanding any custome, vsurpation, or violent occupation; They are in the state of damnation, and all that partake with them, either by counsell, aide, consent, or defence, directly or indirectly; They are all of them theeues, and robbers of Gods goods, Pillers and Pollers of the Saints, Church-robbers, and excommunicate persons, excluded from the benefit of Prayer, remission of sinnes, and all benefit of the Church: and without restitution before death, no receiuing of the Sacrament, no Confession of sinnes, no absolution of the Priest, will doe them any good: But with Iudas they are traytors and robbers of Gods treasure. They are Infidels, and vngracious vngrateful persons, and shall bee eternally damned in hell. And as the Philistins were punished with Mice and Locusts, with Emrods and manifold miseries, so long as they detayned the Lords Arke: So shall the Defrauders of Tithes bee continually exercised with punishments, and wax old in miseries, vntill they make a full restitution. For such are well worthy to bee Smitten with Diuine reuenge, to be punished with Gods own iudging hands, as either to be punished with wicked children, or to die a sudden death, or to bee slaine, or to haue their house and goods consumed with fire from heauen. Such is the reward of sacrilegious Simonie, or simoniacall Sacriledge. But he that shall vse no fraude or couen in his Tithes, shall be rewarded of God with eternall life, which the Father, Sonne, and holy Ghost vouchsafe to grant vnto vs. Amen. So hee. Whence wee may obserue how detestable the sinne of Sacriledge and Simonie is; although otherwise, I doe not approue of euery particular passage cited by my Author, as some of them smelling of the Romish Caske. But let it suffice to make such sinnes the more odious to all louers of the Truth.
