---
reading: burton-simony
page: 93
pdf_page: 109
sortable_pagination_id: 109
---

### CHAP. XV.

### Of the miserable fruits and effects of Simonie.

The effects and fruits of Simonie are no lesse miserable, then the Censures are grieuous, and the punishments thereof intollerable. For as *Simon* is the Father of all Simonists: So *Simonie* is the Mother of all Mischiefes in the Church. For Simonie doth vsually poyson and corrupt two Well-heads, whence the streames of good life doe generally flow vnto all the people; that is, the Parson, and the Patron. These be, as the two great Lights in the Firmament of the Church, from whom the sublunary and subordinate people receiue the direction and conduct of their life.

Now for the Parson or Minister, hee is the Salt of the earth, the Light of the world, the Guide of the simple. But whom Simonie maketh vnsauoury, darkneth, blindeth: Wherefore as Saint Chrysostome saith, *When the Candle is extinguished, when the Pilot is drowned, when the Captaine is captived, what remaines for the remnant?* Let no man despise thy youth, said the Apostle to Timothy. Why? Because nothing doth more impeach and disaduantage a Ministers labours, and frustrate all the fruit of his calling, then contempt iustly contracted vpon his person. And nothing makes him more contemptible, then *Simonie*. And what so captiuates their spirituall Captaines, what makes them so mute in Gods cause? what doth so euirate their masculine profession, that they dare not doe their dutie, when necessitie commands it? If not Simonie? For as Saint Cyril saith, *A good Pastor, entring into the Fold, by the Authoritie of the Holy Ghost, as of the Porter, the Sheepe heare his voyce, and willingly obey him, as knowing and acknowledging the goodnesse and integritie of their Shepheard: But when they finde that their Pastor came not in by the doore, but climbed vp another way: Neither doe they so much esteeme of his exhortations
