---
reading: burton-simony
page: 98
pdf_page: 114
sortable_pagination_id: 114
---

of the truth. These two being like the two maine pillars, whereon the whole house leaned: if *Simonie* like *Sampson* shake these downe, tell mee how the whole Parish cannot but perish with them? Wee haue a memorable and deplored example hereof in *Herod* and *Caiphas*, the one, the Patron selling, the other, the Priest purchasing. For it is well obserued by Ferus, that *Annas* and *Caiphas* did purchase to themselues the yeerely vicissitude of succession in the Office of the High Priest, which is noted by the Euangelist, saying, That *Caiphas* was the High-Priest for that yeere. So that *Annas* and *Caiphas*, the father and sonne in law, had their yeerely turnes in the High-Priests Office, yeelding to *Herod* a yeerely returne for the same, to keepe his fingers in vse and vre. Vnde facile conjici potest quam nihil pietatis habuerint, multum autem arrogantiae & vana gloria: Whence it may easily bee coniectured, how little or no pietie they had, and how much pride and vaine-glory; saith Ferus. And who so fit as these grand Simoniackes, to be the betrayers and murtherers of the Lord Iesus Christ? whereupon insued the fatall ruine of that most ancient and renowned Church and Nation of the Iewes. So when the Lord had denounced that fatall and finall destruction to *Hierusalem*, and that Church; doth he not immediately thereupon goe into the Temple and purge it from those profane Merchants? Intimating, that such like profanation of the Church by buyers and sellers, should be one principall cause of the ruine thereof, Luke 19. 44, 45. Saint *Augustine* reported, that the holy fire of the Sacrifice, which during the seuentie yeeres captiuitie in *Babylon* liued vnder water, was extinguished, when *Antiochus* sold the Priesthood to *Iason*. And what maruell then, if the fire of godly zeale, and the very life and light of religion bee in danger to bee wholly extinguished in that Church, where Simonie is predominant? In Pope *Gregory* the ninths time, a Grecian Archbishop elect, comming to Rome to bee confirmed, and not speeding without a large summe, thereupon returned, *re infecta*, which gaue the first occasion to the Greeke Church to reuolt and rent it selfe from
