---
reading: x-5.3
page: 375b
pdf_page: 411
sortable_pagination_id: 411.2
---

## CAP. IV.

The same.

We found it necessary by our letters to prohibit in the strongest terms the accused simoniac from celebrating the solemnities of the Mass, until the matter could be more reliably established.

## CAP. V.

The same.

Whenever something is said to have been done contrary to ecclesiastical discipline, lest the guilt of turning a blind eye reprove us before God, we dare not leave it uninvestigated. It has come to our attention that you were ordained through the simoniac heresy. Many other things were also said about you here, of which one matter was of the greatest consequence. We therefore found it necessary to prohibit you by our letters from celebrating the solemnities of the Mass until we could discern the matter more reliably.

## CAP. VI.

Pope Lucius.

Just as the simoniac plague surpasses all other diseases by its very magnitude, so as soon as its signs have become manifest in any person, it must without delay be expelled and driven out from the church of God. For Peter, the first shepherd of the church, recognizing the inmost heart of Simon \[Magus\] not through any human testimony but through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, punished him without any hearing by a terrible and sudden death.

## CAP. VII.

Deodatus.

So great is the stain of this crime that even slaves are admitted to accuse their masters, and any criminals at all \[may bring the charge\]. Likewise, any sinner may sing Mass except a simoniac, whom even anyone at all — even a prostitute — may accuse, so that he be removed from the order he wrongfully received.

## CAP. VIII.

Alexander III. in the Council of Tours.

Avarice is not sufficiently rebuked by the people if it is not guarded against by every means by those established in the clergy — especially by those who, having despised the world, profess themselves religious and follow a rule. We therefore prohibit that any money be required of those who wish to enter religious life. Nor shall priories or any chaplaincies of monks or clerics be sold through annual auction. Nor shall
