---
reading: x-5.3
page: 379b
pdf_page: 415
sortable_pagination_id: 415.2
---

of stricter rule, in which they may without ceasing bewail so execrable an offense. But if the money was given without their knowledge, compel them to renounce that same place, and afterward you may restore them to it, if they can remain there without scandal, or place them in another house of the same order to serve God.

## CAP. XXVI.

### If one who had been unknowingly received through simony to a canonry renounces it and is afterward received anew to the same canonry, he cannot claim anything by reason of the first reception.

Idem.

It has been made known to us by your account that your father once obtained for you the benefit of a prebend through the intervention of money; and when you afterward reached the age of discretion and had taken the sign of the Lord’s cross \[i.e., made a crusade vow\], moved by penitence for that offense, you freely resigned the said prebend into the hands of the provost and the brethren. The same provost and brethren, however, taking pity on you, elected you anew as their canon, on the condition that by reason of that election you should hold the last place in choir and in all other matters. Since you have humbly inquired of us whether you may recover your place according to the first reception, we answer you that, content with the indulgence which your brethren are known to have mercifully extended to you, you should not presume to claim anything in that church by reason of the first reception.

## CAP. XXVII.

### A simoniacal election must be quashed if money was promised to the electors on account of the election, even if the elect was ignorant of it, unless this was done to defraud him. This is the first ruling. A bishop cannot dispense with an elect who has been rejected for the vice of simony. This is the second ruling. Likewise for an abbot.

Coelestinus III.

It was diligently made known to us on your behalf that, when four men had been appointed by the chapter to elect a certain person as parish priest, the friends of the one upon whom hopes of election rested promised one or all of the electors that they would pay a sum of money, though the one who was afterward elected by reason of that promise was himself ignorant of it.

(Further on:) Since you have wished to consult us on this matter, we answer your inquiry briefly: unless it were clearly established that those who made such a promise had acted with malicious intent to defraud the one who was to be elected, even though he himself was unaware of the promise, his election, as proceeding from a presumed simoniacal depravity, must be wholly rejected. (Further on: Finally, as to what we find at the end of your inquiry, we have determined to answer thus: that a person elected as parish priest, or as priest, or as prelate of any church, and rejected as aforesaid for simoniacal depravity, cannot by right obtain any dispensation from his bishop.)

## CAP. XXVIII.

### One who pays money to a prelate so that the prelate will not wrongfully molest him in his rights may reclaim it if the prelate does not keep his promise. This is the ruling, adhering to the letter.

Idem, to the Bishop of Lincoln and the Prior of Pontefract.

Our beloved son R., the provost, set before us
