---
reading: x-5.3
page: 382a
pdf_page: 418
sortable_pagination_id: 418.1
---

to prohibit something expressly: we therefore respond as follows — that because, contrary to your prohibition and will (from which you never afterward departed), someone promised money and paid it while you were entirely unaware, especially since that person is bound to you by no tie of blood, nothing, as we believe, ought to be imputed to you as penalty or fault, unless you afterward consented by paying the promised money or even by returning what had been paid; otherwise it would happen that one person’s act — that of someone laying snares for an adversary — would be to the harm of the very person it thoroughly displeased, and thus someone would profit from his own fraud. Those, however, who gave or received the money are manifestly guilty to such a degree that, were their transgression known to the church — which does not judge hidden matters — they would be liable to canonical punishment. [Given at the Lateran, 2nd of August, 1199.]

## CAP. XXXIV.

If a cleric confers goods on a church with the agreement that he be received as a canon and retain those goods as his prebend, simony is committed; but not so if this is done without such an agreement.

### The Same to the Dean of Beauvais.

Your prudence has led you to consult us as to whether, if someone offers certain of his goods to a church, requesting that he be permitted during his lifetime to hold those same goods in that church as a prebend, such goods ought to be received when thus offered, and whether the same cleric may be admitted as a canon of that church without the taint of simony. We therefore respond to your devotion as follows: if any cleric bestows or offers his goods with a condition or agreement that he thereafter retain them as a prebend, and that he be admitted as a canon, such an offering or reception cannot take place without the taint of simony, since in such matters every bargain or agreement must cease, according to canonical sanctions. If, however, someone offers his goods purely and without any agreement or condition, humbly requesting that he be admitted as a canon and that he be permitted to retain his goods as a prebend, and if the clerics of that church give their pure consent: such a reception can beyond doubt take place without scruple of simoniacal corruption. Although we respond in this manner — because it is given to us to judge only of manifest things — yet if the one who makes such a gift is moved by the intention of thereby acquiring spiritual goods through the temporal goods he offers, and the clerics who receive him as a brother would not have received him had they not stood to gain some temporal advantage, then without doubt both he and they are judged guilty before the strict Judge, who searches hearts and knows secrets. [Given at Rome, at St. Peter’s, 3rd of December, Year 10, 1207.]

## CAP. XXXV.

One ought not receive orders from someone he believed to be a simoniac; but he may minister in those orders he previously received from that same person.

### The Same to the Prior of Canterbury.

You have informed us through your letters that, when B. had received the monastic habit in a certain house of the Carthusian order, upon the completion of his probationary period he was ordained a subdeacon by the diocesan bishop; but afterward he learned from the account of certain persons that, although the same bishop was otherwise an honorable man, he had nonetheless many times committed the vice of simony, on account of which the same monk, greatly troubled and disturbed, fears to minister in the order he has received, and is unwilling to be promoted by the same bishop to higher orders. Since he is not permitted to leave the hermitage, and the aforesaid bishop will not allow him or anyone else of his diocese to be ordained by another bishop, you have asked to be instructed through the apostolic see what is to be done with the aforesaid monk regarding the order already received and the higher orders yet to be received. We therefore respond that the same
