---
page: 10
pdf_page: 10
---
1NTRODUCTION.
VI
whole   work,
of   description   and
and
both
of   abode,
of
ex-
the
critical
is   now
to   be   done   over   again.
however,
had
accomplish-
This,
mination,
bring   my
and
can
part
entreating
ed;
the
the
edition
close,
to
in
I   have   men-
account
circumstances
take
extenuating
the
public
to
into
tioned,   which   have   caused   so   long
the   publication   of   this   book,
delay
in
custom
avail   myself   of   the
occasion   to
here   very   gladly
follow
is   now
those   who
becoming
and
mention
which
general,
quite
to
all
lent   me
wish
have
thank   Dr.
hand.
helping
especially
Furnivall,
to
Mr.   Matthew   —   who
aided   me
but
not
only
translated
the
side-notes,
help   —
both   by
advice   and
every   way,
of
the
his   active
his
officers
in
Goldlin   von   Tiefenau   and
Dr.   Rudolf   Beer;
those
Dr.
Hofbibliothek,
the
of   the   Prague   University,
the   head
and   Prof.
Ingram,
of   Trinity
librarian
Dublin,   who
sent   their   MSS.
for   me;
Prof.   Ingram
to   Vienna
College,
in
My
me   much
showed
are   due
thanks
best
kindness.
particular
to
all
these
srentlemen.
II.   The   Manuscripts   and   their   transmission.
treatise   De   Sinwnia   has   come   down   to
The
us   in   nine   manuscripts,
belong
one
which
seven
Vienna,
Imperial
Library,
of
the
the
to
to
Prague
and   one
I   have
Dublin.
Library,
College,
Trinity
University
to
from
thought
them,
it   best
following
order.
the
to
letter
to
in
/,
Vindob.   4536
described   by
Cod.
Buddensieg,
Dr.
Fully
(a),
in
i.
pp.   XLIV — XLVI.
Polemical   Works,
to   Wyclifs
Also
Introduction
his
p.   XXIV.
the   Dialogns   by   Mr.
Introduction,
(very
Pollard,
briefly)
in
The   Argumentum
De
Simonia
from
extends
191'.
133
to
f.
f.
itself.   The
denoted   by
comes
before
chapters
are
the
treatise
in
initials
and   by   numbers
margin,   which
red
also   contains   subdivisions
the
ink,
in
and   numerous
and
catchwords,
chapters
correc-
so
of   the
(A,
B,
on),
Many
with   marks
refer   them
place
of   the
the
tions
their
to
to
text.
in
means
corrected   by
and   marginal
mistakes
of
erasures
are
additions;
The
many
first   decade
handwriting   belongs
left   uncorrected.
are
the
to
Explicit — prelatos,
I5   th
of   the
there
After
century.
closing
the
lines
is
an
of   catchwords:
index
Registrum.
Sequitur
Abbas
quocunque
sumere
pro
debet
orna-
exigere
vel
nichil
mento.
A.
I.
