---
page: 11
pdf_page: 11
---
INTRODUCTION.
VII
acceptus   quomodo
Acceptor
peccat   symonia.
et
Accipiens
&c.
A.
stare
sine
Actus
dicitur   peccatum,
habitus
inordinatus
vel
P.
2.
And
on.   The   numbers
so
chapters;
indicate
the
the
their
letters,
subdivisions.
i^/^cm.
188   numbered
2   by
Cod.   Vindob.
1622
Size
(b).
2.
22
between
which
left   blank
are
leaves,
several
of
the
tractates
different
blank   leaves.   Bound
the   end
16
leather-covered
boards.
are
there
at
in
On
a   summary
iu   two
cover   there
of   contents
of   the
the
inside
first
is
of   the   XV   th
both
hands,
century,
follows:
as
different
a)   Tractatus   magistri   Stanislai   doctoris   theologie   de   peccato   et   gracia.
symonia.   —
innocentia   W.
b)   De
Conclusio
Tractatus
de
sine
fine.
Dyalogus   W.   —
quod
Tractatus   44
perfectissima
Christi
est
religio.
contra   monachos   W.   —   Responsio
conclusionum   W.
conclusionum
clericorum.   —
Item   verbum
communiter
de
Tractatus
ordinibus
Item   de
quatuor
dictum
clero.
sectis.
On
illegible   word)
of   the   other   cover,
there
(an
the   inside
is:
dyalogus   Wykleff
de   symonia,
de   peccato
gracia
magistri
Stanislai,
et
century).   The
of   the   XVI   th
(Handwriting
given
contents
are
inexactly
in
65 — 82'
Tabulae   Manuscriptorum
not
Hofbibliothek:
are
of   the
the
ff.
73 —  75
of   Wyclifs   De
Inno-
a   fragment
Statu
contain
blank.
quite
Ff.
sic   eadem
dicta   magis
Ut   supra
suppleat
Explicit:
(Incipit   :
centice
catalogue   (No   340
by
of
of   his
already
noticed
Shirley
natura)
in
p.
c  Conclusio'
Then
after   De   Simonia,
of   which
the
the
Denis).
follows,
first   cover   makes   mention
pura
table   on
Conclusio
religio
the
(Incip.:
127' —   128).
Expl.:   subditum
religiosos
perfectos
Christiana
etc.
ff.
180 —  181'),
The
De
this   volume
Ordine
are:
three
tracts
last
in
(ff.
18   1' —  183')
Monachorum
De
De
Demonio
and
Meridiano
Sectis
(ff.
183' —   188)
and
other   names,
the   Tabulae
over-
under
noticed
in
(ff.
The
good   and
and
looked   by
which
very
careful,
writing,
Shirley.
is
which   seems   —
certain   passages   —
of   noticeable   differences
in
in   spite
half   of   the   XV   th
the   work
to   be
belongs
to   the
of   a
copyist,
single
first
for   we   find
century.   No
can   be
following
assigned
the
earlier   date
to
it,
cc  Explicit
words
gracia
de   peccato
magistri
on
64':
tractatus
et
hic
f.
cetera."
theologie   professoris
sacre
Stanislai   labore   editus
14   10.
et
d.
a.
the   beginning
beautiful   MS.
coloured   initials   and   vignettes
with
at
It
is
and
of   the   more
the   parchment
is   very
white.
important
fine
tractates;
