---
page: 12
pdf_page: 12
---
INTRODUCTION.
VIII
The   margins   are
a   few   words
written   upon
with
wide,
smaller   letters
in
there.   Only   one   column
them   here   and
each   page.
to
De   Simonia
extends   from
with   blank   spaces   wher-
83
128,
to
f.
f.
The
not   make
a   word.
have   no
could
ever
chapters
copyist
out
the
The   Argumentum
placed
beginning;
verses
subdivisions.
the
the
at
is
form   the   conclusion.   The   "Conclusio
(ff.   127'-   128)
'Explicit
.   prelatis',
to   De   Simonia.
does   not   belong
Described   by   me
Vindob.   4504
See
Cod.
for   Mr.
Harris:
(c).
3.
De   Benedicta
fuller   de-
Incarnatione,
subjoin
Introduction,
XII.
p.
De   Simonia.   This
of   what
concerns
extends
especially
tractate
scription
title.   A
36.   No
both   on
the   margin   and
from
fe.w   corrections,
to
f.
f.
text.   The   remark
that   De   Compositione   Hominis
is   non   examinatus
the
in
a   proof   that   the   other   MSS.   are   examinati.
can   by   no   means   be
taken
as
De   Simonia
corrected.   Gaps
have   been
uot   properly
also
unfilled
left
is
many
blunders   have   been
and
illegible   words,
absurd
places
of
the
in
first   decade   of   the  XV'
1  '   century.   Spaces
allowed   to   remain.   Writing   of   the
The   Argumentum
to   be
are   left
the
for
at
letters
filled
initial
is
in.
beginning   of   the   book.   No
Instead
of   the
subdivisions
of   chapters.
lines
de   Symonia".
"Explicit—   prelatos",
there
"Explicit
tractatus
is
4.   Cod.   Vindob.   4515
in   the   Dialogus,
Shortly   described
Intro-
(d).
in   Buddensieg's   Polemical   Works
of   Wyclif
p.   XXIII;
very
duction,
fully
pp.   XLVI— XLVIII.
27   —   67').   No
De   Simonia
all   belonging
Several
hands,
to
title.
(ff.
of   the   XV   th
century.   Many
the   MS.
first   decades
blunders
glaring
the
in
are   corrected   by   numerous   marginal   or   supralinear   notes
first   copied,
as
has   been
and
and
correct
here
original   mistake
erased,
the
there
the
This
point
course
value
considerably
of
supplied.
text
alters
its
to   which   we
There
few
catchwords.
subsequently
are
allude.
shall
The
by
no
have
red
but
chapters
are
indicated
subdivisions,
initials.
The
Argumentum
and
are
&c.
stands
"Explicit",
the
lines
first,
wanting.
Vindob.   3927
5/   Cod.
(e).
of   W.
Pol.   Works
Described   by
XLIII.
Buddensieg,
Vol.
I.
53 —  74')
De   Simonia
pagination
obtains
besides
that
the
has,
(ff.
own.   Each
of   the   two
the   work,
through
pagination
of
special
its
all
the   same   number,
the   open   book   bear
pages   which
each
other
face
in
c   and   d
the   four   columns   making
and
up   the   two   pages
are   lettered
a,
b,
