---
page: "121"
pdf_page: 162
---
General
Index.
Abolition, the, of simony,
is very difficult, 26.
Abrogation,
the, of a law,
does not
belong
to
the Pope,
io3,
and
in any
case
it requires
greater zeal on the part of the monks,
ioq.
Absentee
beneficiaries should,
as
in Scotland,
receive no income,
32.
Accidenls without a
subject, 3q, 69.
Acts, though
positive.
if attended by
sin,
arc
called sinful, though
sin is a mere defect, 25.
Administration,
the,
of temporalities,
is
infe-
rior to the proper spiritual functions of thc
Pope,
3o.
Admission
into
a religious
order,
if
paid
for,
unlawful, 84.
Advowsons, simonically purchased,
90.
Alga^el,
69.
Alms
should
be
withdrawn
as
a
defensive
measure against Papal claims, 56.
Anecdote about a rich miser's servant 74.
Anselm,
St.,
his maxim
that the
slightest
sin
should not be committed,
even
to save
thc
world,
97.
Anlichrist,
6,
28,
3i,
44,
45,
81,
63,
65,
68,
101,
io3.
Appointments
for
which a priest
is
unfit,
or
which
are taken from wrong motives,
con-
stitute simony,
17.
Appropriations of benefices by religious houses,
a source of simony, 88; are not good though
allowed by the Pope, 89;
should not be got
by monks"and
friars,
even
though
recom-
mended by their superiors,
106.
Aquinas,
his approbation
of
the
definition of
simony given
in the Decretals,
14.
Aristoteles' axiom
that what
is violent cannot
last, 97.
Avicenna, 69.
Avignon
is the fountain head of simony,
9.
Authority, human,wrong\y equaUed toDivine, 39.
Avarice,
the, of Bishops, ji.
Barbers'
fecs for tonsures,
78.
Belial, sons
of, who troublc
tlic church,
1?.
Benefice,a.: implies duties to be performed, 107.
Bernard,
St., and Pope Eugenius,
63.
Bishop,
the work of a, may bedesired,
but not
the dignity,
22.
Bishops tainted with simony, 70
;
should havc
only the necessaries of life, 82.
Blasphemy,
the, of those who maintain that thc
Popc
is above every law,
64.
Blesstngs
from
the
accurst
arc
themselves
accurst,
19.
Blindness,
the,
ot certain
rulers,
14.
Boniface
VIII,
28,
29.
Bulls of provision are unlawful, 48.
Canon,
a, if unfit, should retuse a bishopric, 46.
Cardinals
sent from Rome to England should
not be admitted
to any
positions,
32.
Ceremonies, heavy fees for, 73; empty pretences
that
they
are
payments
only
for
bodily
trouble and cxpense,
74
;
the "Church bur-
dened with them,
76.
Christ cast out
the buyers and
sellers
in
thc
templc,
9,
11
;
entercd to
his
disciples,
the
doors being closed;
mystic
signification of
this
act,
12; condemned to death as an arch-
heretic,
101.
Church,
the, what parts
of
it are infected
by
simony,
p. 27
to end of the book.
Chrism,
holy, forbidden to besold undcr severe
penalties,
77.
Christians should obey the Pope only
in so
far
as he follows Christ,
65.
Clement,
St., 41,
56.
Clergy the, was
primitively
elected and ought
to be so now,
36.
Clerks should not be promoted
for secular ser-
vice, 44.
Colleges would not
fail,
but
bc more prospe-
rous,
if there were no appropriation, 94.
Conditions,
fifteen, which if a Pontiff possesses
he
is
a true Pope, 64.
Conlempt of Christ shown m the
invention
ot
new naditions,
9.
Contradiclion, the, ofDccretals, with eachother,
29,
52.
Corrodies, unlawtulness
ot,
84,
85.
Addenda,
p. »5.
Council ot Lyon,
56.
Creatures,
all,
arc
spiritual
or
related
with
something spiritual,
i5.
Danger,
the,
of
holding
patronage,
24;
its
abuses, 36.
Death ought not
to be
infiicted
011 simoniacs,
but they should
be
left alone, 104;
if their
company cannot bc shunned,
their fellowship
can,
io5.
Defences, sophistical, of simony,
/4.
Decretals; how thev define simony; the
defini-
tion
is
faulty,
14,
i5;
contradiction amongst
them,
2q.
Devil, the iioondav (or southern)
is the Pope,
if he makes unjust claims,
3i.
