---
page: "122"
pdf_page: 163
---
122
GENERAL INDEX.
Devil.
tlie,
would
fear to do what
simoniacs
do,
i3.
Difficulty,
the, of
putting
an
end
to simony,
26.
Dilemma,
a
:
either the papal decree,
"si
quis
prebendas",
is heretical,
or
it
is our duty
to cnforce
it,
102,
io3.
Door,
the,
signifies Christ,
12;
no one should
enter,
unless
with
the blood of the Lamb,
12,
i3.
Dove,
the,
signifies the Church
mystically,
5;
the simoniacal sellers
of,
y5.
Duty, the neglect of, renders a bishop simoniac
by a
tacit contract with the
Devii. 72.
Election by the people
is
best,
42. Two sorts
of, 49.
Elisha's
prophecy
against
Gehazi
tullilled
aeainst the Church,
9.
Endowments.
many
of them should
be
sup-
presscd, 37; ought not to be saved by wast-
ing ihe goods
o.f the poor,
96.
Eiidowmenl
is the nurse of heresv, 8; dcspoils
the Church, 38.
Endowed orders, simony among them, ch. VII,
pp. 84—98.
Episcopal
consecrations
might
be
performed
just as well by a holy layman, 76.
Episcopal duties cannot be performed by simo-
niacs,
111.
Eucharist,
the,
false
doctrines
prevalent
con-
ccrning, 39, 69.
Eusenius, Pope, and
St. Bernard,
63.
F.vil done
that good may come, 96.
Excommunication need
not bc feared,
45.
Excuses,
the,
that
a
temporal
gift
alonc
is
bought
bv
corrodies,
are
a
mockery
of
God, 86.
"
Exlortions
at
ordinations
undcr form
of
frce
gifts, 78—80.
Falsity, of the proposition that a man
is good,
if not morally bad, 46.
Favour,
the. ofpatrons, simoniacallv obtained,
Fictitious claims as
to endowments, 35.
Fire,
the
sacrificial
;
its cxtinction, mystic sig-
nification
of,
i3.
First fruits should
not
be given
to
the Pope,
54,
55;
their payment
implies
a
simoniacal
contract, not
explicit
but,
tacit,
5g.
Filtest,
the, should always be elected, 46;
i.
e.
not the
fittest
in
himself,
but for place and
time, &c, 47.
Founders
of monasteries,
wronged
by
corro-
dies,
85.
Freedom ot the Churcli,
the, infringed upon by
the Pope,
55.
Free-tvill given us by God,
obliges
us,
io
act
against simony,
162.
Friars and
contemplative Orders
are
for
the
most part simoniacs
by
their
tacit consent
to simony, 98—99.
Geha^i, the OldTestament type of the simoniac,
9;
his behaviour
less
wicked
than
that of
modcrn simoniacs, 60;
his punishment,
61,
66, 79.
C,od
sells thmgs spiritual
to His creatures,
16;
He alone
being
sinless,
and
master
of
all
things spiritual, the Pope may be a simoniac,
3o; He gives his
gifts
to
all
freely, and we
should do
likewise,
97.
God's law ; whatever
is added
thereto
is more
or less wrong, 5o.
Gold is given and the
soul
is lost
by a simo-
niacal
gift.
112.
Greed
is an impediment
to lawful promotion,
20;
Gregory XI,
his condemnation
of thc
doctrine
that
the
Papal
power
of
binding
and loosing
is
limitea,
68.
Gundophorus,
King;
legend
of
St.
Thomas
and,
106.
Heaven awaits rulers who put down simony, 7.
Heresy
is
divided
chiefly
into
three
kinds,
simony, apostasy, and blasphemy;
1;
exists
amongst the clergy, especially in high places,
4
;
is nursed by endowments,
8.
Heretics, Different sorts of;
simoniacs,
friars,
and
rulers who support simoniacs,
6.
ldolalry of simoniacs, i3; incurred in thrusting
oneself into
office,
20.
Ignorance which the Bishop pretends of simony
ad ordinations; 7S;
he ought
to know,
79.
Impeccability cannot belong
to the Pope,
3i.
Income,
yearly,
of each member
of the clergy
would amount on an average to 1000 marks,
89.
Injustice
ot
Boniface
VIII' s law that
the
first
person of many vvho presents
a papal pro-
vision,
shall have the benefice, 29.
Innocent III's authority
as regards
the Euclia-
rist, 3q, 40.
Irotty of the blessingsof simoniacs whosc blcss-
ing
is a curse,
112.
IscartoVs
sin,
less heinous
than
that of simo-
niacs,
11
;
his
toleration
by Christ,
no
ex-
cusc for promoting bod
priests,
91.
Jeroboam, an example of simony,
10.
John XXII was thc
first Pope who ordered
the
payment of first fruits,
58.
Joshua,
41.
Judas
is always very
activc in
thc Church, 29;
men now
sell Christ as he did. 43.
Judges who are themselves infectea wfth simony
are incapable of judging rightly,
100.
Justice, wrongfully bought and sold,
i» simonv,
King,
the, has the duty
to dispense
bencficcs,
3i;
must
be the
first
in
his
kingdom,
33;
should awake
from slumber,
44;
is
morc
guilty
if he
tolerates
simony,
than
if
hc
should
let leprosy or hostile invasion deso-
late
his realm,
16.
Kingdoms are troubled by simony,
7.
Labour, corporal,
prctended
to
be
paid
for
in
fees
for
ceremonies,
of
which
the
price
would
be very smalll,
if not
for
the
spiri-
tual value of the ceremonies,
75.
Lawfutness,
the,
of asking
promotion
for one
whom we know
to be
fit,
19.
I.egal proofoi simony is sometimcs impossiblc
and may be dispeiised
with, 99.
Leprosy
is the imagc of simony,
9,
6r;
like
it,
is hard
to curc, 26.
Leprosy,
spiritual,
has
fallcn on
thc Popcs,
61.
