---
page: "123"
pdf_page: 164
---
GENERAL INDEX.
12.
Licenscs simoniacally purchased,
go.
Lots, casting
; an Apostolic mode of choice,
41.
Louis,
St., king of France, burned certain papal
bulls, 59.
Lucifer's arguments are most heretical,
3o.
Lush,
the,
of the
fiesh are an impediment
to
lawful promotion,
20.
Luxury
in food, dress,
etc.
renders
a Bishop
simoniac,
72,
73,
81 ;
of prelatcs,
q5.
Lyon, council
of,
56.
Maledictions,
if unjust, are
blessings, 45.
Mark of
the Beast,
the,
if
visible,
would
be
seen on
all English Bishops,
72,' 73.
Mass,
according to Canon Iaw may be said by
a!l
sinful
priests except
by simoniacs,
110".
Mathias,
St.,
41.
Miriam struck with leprosy,
61.
Money
paid
by
another
for
a
benefice
does
not prevent
its lawful reception, ifthebene-
ficiary
do not know
of
it,
20
;
is
simoni-
acally taken out of England, 44.
Monks
should
do
penance
in
the
desert and
not
live
in
towns,
ousting
laymen
from
their
places,
97
;
should
not leave
appro-
priated churches to their
vicars,
107.
Mortal
sin
is
the buying
of
the
right
to be
damned,
i5, and
is simony in its most uui-
versal sense,
16;
is incurred at every action
of a man
in
a
state of
mortal
sin,
18, and
in
elections
to
charges made
according
to
human traditions,
5o.
Moses' position
and
that
ot the Pope cannot
be compared,
53.
Naaman's leprosy, simony figured
by,
9.
Necessity
of choosing
the very
fittest for any
charge,
5i.
Niniveh,
32.
Noonday devil,
the,
3i.
Nepotism
in the Church,
92.
Obedience
is due
only
in
so
far as our
rulers
follow God's
law,"io2.
Objections
to
Wyclifs
detinition
of
simony,
disposed
of,
24,
25;
to the doctrine that the
fittest should
bc
elected,
refuted,
5i—54.
Obligation,
the, of giving up
a benefice obtain-
ed simoniacally
; how
far
it extends,
21.
OJJiciers,
the, Bishops',
are said
to
buy their
offices,
8t.
Orders
taken
only
tor pay
;
how
this
abuse
might bc avoided,
86.
Ornaments, consecration
of:
fees
for,
8.
Papal
collectors should
not
be tolerated,
10^.
Patrimony of the Crucified, the; abuses ofthe,
i3,
93.
Patronage the danger of 24,
ought
to
belong
to
the
founder
of the
benefice 34;
was
at
first
in
lay hands,
and
therefore could not
lawfully have come
nto those of the clergy,
34,
35
its abuses, 36.
Paul,
St., struck with blindness
notwithstand-
ing
his good
intentions,
38.
Paul.
St.,
resisted
St. Peter
to his face,
63, 68.
Paymenls
to
lavmen
for
defence
of convcnts
are simony,
g5.
Payment andscrvice ought to be inseparable, 55.
Peace,
thc,
of the world
requires
that simony
should
be put down,
io3.
Pecuniary
engagements,
if a
religious
house
undertakes
them, may
perhaps not
be
ful-
iilled,
87.
Penance, the sacrament of,
false doctrines pre-
valent concerning, 3g.
Pensions, simoniacal system
of,
92.
Perfection,
religious,
sbld for money, 89.
Poor,
the, wronged
by corrodies,
85.
Pope the,
is not
to be
counted
upon
to
put
down simony,
6.
Pope,
the, can commit simony,
27, by love of
wordly pomp,
28,
by
inventing
traditions
for his
own
gain,
28,
29
;
by
presenting
curates for wordly reasons,
3o;
usurps the
king's duties
3i,
32, which include
all tem-
poralities, 33, q3;
he shows himself a heretic
by
his exaggerated claims,
40;
his excom-
munications
are
not
to be
feared, ^5;
his
bulls of provision should not be obeyed, 48;
his claim to be appointed by God like Moses
is
false, 53;
he
has
no
right
to
patronage
and
first
fruits, 54,
all claims on
this point
involve danger,
55, and
infringe on the free-
dom of the Church, 55, 56; heUkes far more
than the
king,
57;
his
supreme
universal
power
is a
fiction,
57;
he
is
infected with
the
leprosy
of
simony
61;
his
authority
cannot
legitimate
unlawful
payments,
63,
64;
he fhust
not
be
set up
as Antichrist,
63,
but should
be fearlessly
corrected,
ib.
he
is
set up by many above the Gospel, 64;
should be obeyed,
but onlv in
so far as he
follows
Christ
65;
should
made
satisfac-
tion, when wrong,
66,
take
warning from
Gehazi and Simon Magus,
67,
and go back
to primitive simplicity 67,
68, g3
;
nis pre-
tence of being
in want
is a
fiction, 89
;
his
right
to
abrogate laws may
go
to extreme
lengths,
io3.
Possessions,
the, of simoniacs ought to be con-
fiscated,
and
this
confiscation
is
far juster
than the right of conqucst,
7.
Poverty^
the,
of the clergy,
inculcated by the
laws of the Church,
83.
Preaching, the necessity
of, in Chrisfs Church,
108.
Predestinate,
the,
are
alone
the membcrs
ot
Chrisfs Church, 3o.
Presentation.
the,
of any person
to an
officc,
ihough allowable,
is wrong
if made
in pre-
petuity, as of any member of an orderchoseu
by
itself, 90.
Pretence,
the, that the clergy
is in want, 89.
Pride
is an impediment to lawful promotion, 20.
Priests
may
without
simony
demand
a
tem-
poral stipend for their spiritual labours,
16,
but not more than they
really need,
16,
17
;
lose their priesthod,
if simoniacs,
18,
19.
Priest,
a,
even
if good,
should not be prefer-
red
to a better layman, 46.
Promotion,
if personally sought after, unlawful,
20
;
to benehces, how imperfectly obtained, 6.
Property got,
distributed and managed by pos-
sessioners
is an occasion of simony,
^8.
Prostitutes are according
to canon law admit-
ted
to accuse simoniacs,
110.
Rank implies
responsibility,
108.
Reformation
the,
of the
church
by
the
Pope
would be
a great miracle,
o3.
