---
page: "124"
pdf_page: 165
---
124
GENERAL 1NDEX.
Rehoboam^s reign
is the type of the division of
the Church,
81.
Religious houses, pensions to,
92.
Remedies, thiee,
to simony,
93.
Requisites, of a judge,
the",
100,
101.
Resistance to the Pope's claims
is a duty,
32.
Responsibility,
the,
of monks
in matters con-
cerning simony, 106.
Righteousness
in
a pope
is
the only
title to a
claim over temporalities,
3o.
Rites of
ihe Church
rendered
invalid by Wy-
clif's doctrine; and
justly
so,
109.
Robbery of the Church, an o"bjection against lay
rule, 37.
Rome should not be applied
to for benefices, 23.
Rule, the,
by which
consent
to
any
action
is
iudged, 98.
Rulers, blindness
of,
14; they are simoniacs by
consent to simony, 98.
Scots the,
32, and note.
Significations, mystic;
a dove
is
the; Church,
5
; Naaman's leprosy is simony, 9; the whip
with which Christ
cast
out the"buyers and
sellers signifies the cords with which simo-
niacs
are
bound,
11;
Lot's
door
figures
Christ,
which
spiritual
Sodomites
strive
to break
open,
12;
Christ
entering
to
his
disciples,
the
doors
being
closed,
figures
that the doors should be closed to simoniacs,
ib.; the
sacrificial
fire going out when Jason
bought the priesthood
signifies
the
loss of
chanty
in
the
church through simony,
i3,
14; the whiteness of leprosy
signifies hypo-
crisy,
62;
Rehoboam's
reign
signifies
the
division of the Church,
81.
Sign-rvorshippers,
36, 39.
Simon the Magician,
2,
67.
Simony
is a
sin against
the Holy Ghost,
1;
is
a leprosy very
difficult to cure,
1,
2;
Its de-
finition,
2;
consists in
the
inordinate will
to
exchange
spiritual
for temporal
things,
and may exist
wiihout any external
act,
2,
3;
it
is implied
in every mortal
sin,
3;
its
common meaning
is an inordinate
contract
to obtain
spiritual
office,
ib.;
not
only
by
means
of money,
munus a manu),
but
61
services
rendered (munus
ab obsequio)
and
of influence employed
(munus a lingua),
3.
4
;
it
is
a heresy, 4;
should
be
put down
by secular lords,
5;
is
spiritual sodomy, 8;
is
the
most
grievous
sin
against
God's
grace,
8,
9;
exists amongst the
religious
in
universitie"s and
in
private
colleges,
which
will consequently
come to destruction,
10;
is most
directly
against
God's law,
12
;
is
an attempt
to force open
the door of God,
ib.:
consists
not
in the fact of buying and
selling things
spiritual
but
in
its unlawful-
ness,
i5; cannot be mantained
to be a buv-
ing or selling
of things
spiritual,
the
defi-
nition being too
lax,
i5,
16;
is committed by
unjust
judges
and
perhaps
by
dishonest
traders
(in a wide sense)
16;
is
all
but uni-
yersal,
17, 18; causes great evils in theChurch,
18,
19
;
is committed by those who apply
to
Rome for benefices, 23; does not consist in
the mere exterior act, 24 ; is a heresy, because
it
is contrary
to Scripture,
and
is
the de-
fence
of,
of the submission to a false doc-
trine,
25;
is
the devil's
net
to catch men,
26
;
is of old standing in England, 62; com-
mitted very much
in
the endowed Orders,
84, and seq.;
is
committed whenever
any
present
is
received
or
given
for a
gift oi
God, 86, whenever religious men
aspire to
prelacies, 87; simony amongst temporal ru-
lers, Ch. VIII,
to end.
Sin, the, of acting against one's conscience even
to do
right, 48;
incurred
whenever we
set
aside what
is best for us,
52.
Society, Early English Text,
106, note.
Sodom and Gomorrhah's sin was
less than that
of simony,
76.
Sodomy,
spiritual, 8.
Sophisms in defence of simony,
14.
Standard,
the, of fitness for any office,
is God's
will
;
if departed from, more and more un-
fit persons are chosen, 47.
Superiors,
if known
to be wrong,
should
be
rebuked,
107.
Suspension
of simoniacs
from
all
offices tpso
facto,
110.
Temporal
advantage,
the,
ot
putting
down
simoniacs; the possessions of those heretics
should be confiscated,
7,
83.
lemporal lucre, the desirc of, renders a bishop
simoniac,
70.
Thomas Aquinas, Saint, approves the definition
of Simony given
in the Decretals,
14.
Vithes
should
be refused
by
the people,
94;
may be made over to another poorer parish
witn the consent of the people,
109.
Unfitness tor a charge cntails the duty of resig-
ning
it,
22.
Unlawfulness,
the, of buying and
selling things
spiritual, and not
the
fact,
constitutes
si-
mony,
i5.
Unlawjulness of corrodies, 84,
85.
Urban
VI. Pope, appealed to that he should re-
nounce
all
riches in
this world,
67.
Vestments, consecration
of,
fees for, 78.
Vicar, the, of Christ must live as Christ did, 54.
War will continue so long as simony
lasts, 9;
because good
will
among men can
spring
only from good
will
to Christ,
9.
Whip,
the,
with
which
Chnst
cast
out
the
buyers and
sellers in thc temple,
its mystic
signification,
11.
Whiteness
of
lcprosy,
mystic
signification
ot
the,
62.
Wyclif defends his own
definition
of simony,
14;
his reasons,
14,
i5.
Zeal in doing
one's
duty
can alone atone
for
the unlawful reception of a
benefice,
21.
