---
page: "125"
pdf_page: 166
---
Addenda.
P.
22,
1.
14.
The work
to
which
Wyclif
alludes is obviously De Officio Pastorali, wnich
was published by Lechler,
i863. There are
se-
veral passages
which may
serve
to
elucidate
others
in De Simonia;
especially
Pars
2 B
,
c. XI,
p.
4.5
in which Wyclif accuses himself
of
not
being
faultless
as
concerns
temporal
possessions, and points out the means of aton-
mg
for
such shortcomings.
Compare De
Si-
monia,
p.
21
: "Omnes enim sumus
in inpetra-
cione,
in accepcione,
et
in
execucione
bene-
ficii
ecclesiastici maculati
.
.
.
."
But
Wyclif,
in
the
present passage, seems to allude to his
cominentary on
the
eleclion
of
St.
Mathias,
Pars 2»,
c. IX, pp. 42,
43.
I also
find
a short
commentary on
St.
Paul's sketch of the virtue
a Bishop
ought to have, Pars
i a
,
c. IV,
p. n
P.
4.2,
1. 26. There
is a mistake here. Thc
note belongs
to. P. 42,
I.
26, and concerns
the
tractateDe Potestate Pape.
It is not yet publish-
ed;
but
fortunately
it
has
been
copied,
and
M.
Patera,
the
chief;
lihrarian
of the Prague
University,
has
been
so kmd
as
to send his
copy for perusal.
Wyclif,
in
this
place,
evi-
dently alludes to Ch. IV. of De Potestate Pape,
towards the end, especially from
180 a*.
P. 44,
1.
3o. De Rege.
There
are
several
pages
in De Officio Regis,
bearing directly on
this matter.
See pp.
176
et seq. There, hbwe-
ver,
nothing
is
to
be
found
respecting
the
"cavendo tanquam venenum, etc."
P.
5g,
I.
7. In De Poteslate Pape,
c. X, we
iind a lengthy account how the
Pope,
in ans-
wer to complaints
that
nothing
could be had
in Rome without money,
pointed
out that lhe
cause was poverty, and asked
for a fixed sub-
sidy upon
ecclesiastical revennes to be granted
him. C. X.
ff. 216
b
2 (towards the latter half),
217
a l
.
Wyclif calls this a 'scandaloza peticio',
and proceeds
to justify
his
epithet
at
consi-
derable length. His authority for the fact
is the
'cronica que intitulatur fiores historiarum'.
P. 68,
1.
36. De
Veritate Sacre Scripture.
This work ot Wyclif has not yet been publish-
ed,
and
the] Wyclif
Society
considers
it un-
necessary to wait until
its publication.
P. 84,
1.
21. A
corrody,
according
to
an
interesting and valuable communication by Mr.
Matthew, "was a life annuity, granted by a con-
vent
against
an
immediate
payment.
Thus,
about
1327, Lord William
of Lillebourn made
over to the Convent
of Winchesler a conside-
rable property about 10 miles from the
city, in
return for which the Convent paid him yearly
£ 10 in money
; robes, &c. to value of £
2. 3
. o
and
certain
payment
in kind
(hay,
oats, &c.)
worth
about 40 shillings.
In
i334,
there
is a
note in
the Convent accounts
of
the last pay-
ment,
and 'nothing more, because he
is dead'.
In
i33o,
one Richard Becke
pays £ 5o,
in
return for a corrody of one conventual loaf and
one pot of conventiial beer
daily.
These
corrodies may
have
had
their
rise
in
providing
for
the
case
of
a
person who
wisned to
give
his
property
to
the
convent,
but could
not
leave
himself without support.
In
iater
times,
it
became a regular
(but
not
always
thrifty)
way
of raising
ready money.
When
the monasteries were
suppressed,
one
of the enquiries that the commissioners had to
make was what corrodies each had
to pay."
