---
page: "127"
pdf_page: 168
---
The
Society's book
for
1896
is nowready;
and the
works for 1897 and 1898 are in the binders' hands, and
can be sent next month
to such Members as will pay
their
Subscriptions
for those years.
The
Subscription
for 1896 became due on Jan.
1, and should be paid at
once
to the
Hon.
Sec, J. W. STANDERWICK,
Esq.,
GENERAL POST OFFICE, LONDON,
E.C.
Cheques
to be crost, 'London and County Bank.'
<$lte
ffiHgqlijf
J^orict|r.
Tenth Report
of the
Executive
Committee, for
1896.
(April,
1896.)
The
continued
help
that the Society gets from its printer,
Mr.
Carl Georg Fromme
of
Vienna,
combined
with
the
devotion of its editors, M. Dziewicki and Prof. Loserth, aided
by Mr.
Matthew, alone enables
it
to produce
its books
in
time, and in advance.
The volume
for
1896,
comprising the
third and fourth
parts of Wyclif 's Opus Evangelicum, edited by Prof. Loserth,
i.s bound and ready for issue.
The volumes for 1897 and
1898, De Logica
II,
edited by
M. H.
Dziewicki,
and
De
Simonia,
edited
by
Prof.
Dr.
Herzberg-Frankel and M. H. Dziewicki,
are in the binders'
hands, and can be issued next month
to any Members who
will pay the two years' subscription in advance.
The
Society
is
clear of debt to the end of 1895
;
but
it
owes Mr. Fromme £350
for
its
three volumes
of 1896-8,
and
it
has
about enough
in hand
to pay
its
binders
for
covering these
volumes.
The Committee thoefore appeal
to Members
for three years' advance subscriptions
at once,
so that a
fresh
start may be made, free from
all
liability,
at the future years' work, 1899-1912.
For 1899 and 1900-1, De Logica
III,
edited by M. H.
Dziewicki, and Prof. Loserth's edition of De
Civili Dominio
II,
III,—whose sheets Dr. Reginald L. Poole and Mr. F. D.
Matthew
see, and
Dr.
R.
L. Poole
side-notes,—have been
some time at press, and may be finished this year.
For 1902
or
1903, M. Dziewicki
has
kindly undertakeu
to
edit the
