---
page: "128"
pdf_page: 169
---
Miscellaneous
Tracts,
Nos.
54-61
in
Shirley's
Catalogue,
which were
copied by
Dr.
Buddensieg, and were
in
the
hands of Dr. Schnabel of Dresden, as
editor,
till his death
three years ago.
Also,
for 1902 or 1903, the De
Potestate,
which has
for many years been
in the hands of M. Patera
of Prag,
has
just been
sent
to
Professor
J.
Loserth,
so
that
it will
probably
go
to
press
next
year.
For 1904,
the Pev.
Dr. Buddensieg hopes
to produce
his
edition
of
De Veritate
; and then
all Wyclifs
great Summa
Theologiae
will be in
type, except the De Mandatis Dei and De
Statu
Innocentiae, which Mr. F. D. Matthew will take up
as soon
as his help to other editors leaves him time for his own texts.
The other works of Wyclif remaining unprinted and not
likely to be included
in the second volume of Miscettanies %
now in charge of the Pev. J. P. Whitney, are, by Shirley's Nos.
6.
De Materia et Forma.*
7.
De Materia (?).f
8.
DeEnte, Bk. I*, Bk. II*
9.
Replicatio de TJniversalibus.*
10.
De Universalibus.*
11.
De Anima.*
13.
De Fide Catbolica.*
24.
De Propbetia.*
26.
De Imaginibus.f
2S.
Peccatum Mortale et Yeniale.t
32.
Errare in Materia Fidei, &c.+
(45.
Commentary
on N.
Test.
? not
Wyclifs.t)
64.
De Paupertate Christi.t
(69.
? part of De Potestate Papae.)
70.
De Clavibus Ecclesiae *
Members
have, then, to
keep
" pegging away "
till the
work they have set tbemselves
is done, and England's long-
due debt
to Wyclifs memory
paid.
For
that, money
is
wanted.
Who will give it?
In
order
to
increase the Society's
funds,
the
Executive
Committee have
resolved that any Member may
give
the
right
to any Library
or
person
to buy
the
first
fourteen
years
of
the
Society's publications,
1882-95,
at
half-price
— 19
volumes
at
8
guineas
and
a
half—provided
that
with
this
sum
are
paid
the
full
Subscriptions
for
1896,
1897, and
1898.
England, Europe, and the rest of the Christian world owe
so much to the memory of Wyclif, that support ought to be
forthcoming
for the printing
of
his Works,
the
records of
his thoughts and
life.
Two-thirds of the Society's task will
be done by
1900.
It
is for our Members
to
see that
the
other
third
is
finished
speedily.
Editors
are
ready and
willing.
Money alone
is wanting.
* Copied.
t Not copied.
§ Shirley's Nos. 43, 44, 47, 48, 68, 77, 92, 94, 95.
