---
page: 13
pdf_page: 13
---
IX
INTRODUCTION.
l   Two   hands   have   worked
on
the   foregoing
as
trac-
at
respectively.
this
The
f.   53
same
from
no
the
doubt
6o';
ones.
to
the
first
is
tate;
f.
of   the   XV   th
first   decades
both   belong
from
the
second,
61
to
75':
to
no
century.   With
exception
the
of   the
tractate,
the
letter
initials
in
first
many
There
catchwords;
marginal
corrections,
are
also
are
up.
filled
others   have   been
some
gaps
not
later
are
at
of   the
filled   in
filled
in,
end
of
"Gertrudis
the
virginis",
with
date
at
note,
ink.
different
point   of   his   work
III,   shows   probably   that   the   copyist   had   reached   this
Ch.
i7   th   March,   St.   Gertrude's   day.   The   Argumentum
is   at   the   beginn-
on   the
book;
wanting.
After
&c.
"Explicit,"
verse,
of
the
ing
the
linal
is
eome
the   words
de   Symonia",
and   an   index
"semper
of
"B.
regnat",
g.   A
few   specimens
and
from
which
catchwords
will
that
in
differs
suffice.
liceat   curiam   Romanam
Utrum
adire   pro
C.
beneficiis,
c.
5.
Quare
sunt
prohibite,
phisice
legis
d.
et
clericis
civiles
9.
De
corpore
13
Christi,
c.
The
And
numbers
pagination;
separate
the
so
the
refer
on.
to
columns.
the
to
letters,
29   cm
by
6.   Cod.   Vindob.   3937
186
Paper.
leaves,
21.
Size,
(/).
a   modern
many
to   last   by
but   numbered   from
hand.
of   them   blank,
first
On
"Dono
words
habui"
and
cover
written
are
in
the
the
fly-leaf
of   the   XVI   th
hand
the   cover
an   index
of   contents,
Inside
century.
in
is
XV   th
The
of   tracts   by   Hus,
MS.
century
handwriting.
collection
is
the   Tabulae
at   some
and
Richard
length
noticed
Fitzralph
others,
in
except   De   Simonia,
from
of   Wyclif
Manuscriptorum:
nothing
here,
is
of   the   XV
137'.   The   writing   belongs
cen-
first   years
the
115
to
to
'   1
f.
f.
and   there   a   catchword   and
each   page   is
in   two
here
columns,   with
tury
explanatory   notes   on   the   margin;   the   word   Nota   occurs   frequently.   There
is
chapters,   but   the   paragraphs   are   denoted   by
no   lettered   subdivision
of   the
ink.   The
copy
and
of   mistakes,
is   very   incorrect,
red
the
sign
in
full
cj
and   show
not   under-
which
scribe
did
destroy
the
that
the
sense,
quite
stand   what   he   was   writing.
&c.
there
"Explicit"
verses
After
the
final
follows:   "Amen
and
"Finitus
dicant"
est
different   ink:
iste
then,
in
tractatus   anno
1401."
1   This   confirms   what
was
is   known   from
other   MSS.
that   the
original
'folio'
The   word
was
used
the   open
page
afterwards
the   middle.
for
double
folded
in
J.   Fumivatl.)
(Note   by   Dr.
F.
leaf.
