---
page: 14
pdf_page: 14
---
INTRODUCTION.
described   by   Dr.   Buddensieg,
Cod.
E9.
X.
Prag.
Fully
Pol.
7.
(g).
Works
of   W.,
L,
Introduction,
LII.
pp.
(ff.   69  —   131')
De   Simonia
a   slovenly   hand,   belonging
written
in
is
of   the   XV   th
the   same
the   first   decade
and
century,
as
the
to
tractate
in
"De
where
immediately   before
Pastorali",
as
as
far
121,
Officio
it,
f.
smaller   and   much   more
abruptly   becomes
cramped
the
writing
the
until
the   work
The   few
and
apparently
of   another   hand.
end,
corrections
is
to   be   found
the   most   part
in   two
one
are
hands;
the
large
text
for
in
delicate.   Red
smaller   and   more
and
on
catchwords
other
bold,
the
the
are   numerous
margin
to   be   met
but
afterwards
only
are
with
at
first,
The   Argumentum,
on
separate
the   beginning
pages.
placed
of   the
at
of   the   work
and
are   adorned
with
also   the
text
treatise,
tasteless
itself,
but   those   which   begin
red   and   blue
are
chapters,
the
ink,
initials;
in
The
in   somewhat
less   bad
chapters
are
of   the
subdivisions
indi-
taste.
126 —   131')
cated   by
marginal   letters.   At
the   end
an
alpha-
there
is
(ff.
super   De
"Registrum
index
catchwords,
of
with
betical
the
title
Symonia".
Abbas   non   debet   sumere
exigere   precium   pro   quocunque
orna-
vel
mento,
cap°,
i°
a.
Actus
peccatum,
habitus
inordinatus
cap°,
vel
dicitur
p.
And
that   begin   with   A,   B
words
&c.
so
giving
the
on,
all
in   De
Described
Cod.
Dubl.
College)
C.
(Trinity
24
8.
1,
(//).
*   The   Argumentum   to   De   Simonia
Apostasia   by   Mr.
is   wanting.
Dziewicki.
in   De
(i).   Described
Cod.
Vindob.
Apostasia,
1343
IV.
p.
9.
De   Simonia
(ff.   1—36').   Over
the   beginning
are
there
of   the   text,
liber   X
de   Symonia
following   words
in   red
the
ink:
"Incipit
est
in
et
of   the   XV th
The   MS.
ordine   summe
flrst   decade
sue."
century,
of   the
the   work
elegantly   adorned
though
of   a
not
so
as
evidently
quite
b,
is
The
by
penman.
chapters
of
indicated
subdivisions
are
the
careful
alphabet.   Many
the   margin;
top
the
corrections
also
of   the
at
letters
in
columns.   There   are   also
each   two
which   have
and   bottom
pages,
of   the
preceding
which
catchwords,
the
of
Instead
contents.
indicate
the
fully
the   Argumentum
comes
&c.
"Explicit,"
closing
the
after
lines,
text,
first   two
account   of   the   spelling
pages,   on
I   wished
a   copy   of   the
to   have
first   page
I   make   mention
of   which
not   be   procured,   the
but
that   could
further;
as
was   photographed
instead.
