---
page: 15
pdf_page: 15
---
XI
INTRODUCTION.
nine   MSS.
The
of   the   comparative
value
of   these
investigation
is
of   them   —
Some
with   no
especially
allude
attended
slight
difficulty.
g   —   must
the   marginal   notes   and
have
copied
to   f   and
the
text
into
circumstance
readings   which   existed
as   such
originals;
various
their
in
and   renders
detracts   from
connection,
genetic
which
of   their
purity
the
to   come   to   a   decision   as   to   their   origin.   Others,   especially   a   and   d,
it   hard
are   full   of  corrections   which   totally   change   their   value,   and   so   much   alter   their
that   we   must   ascribe   one   source
and
another
corrected,
the
to
value
to
texts.   We
also   remember
(which
should
the
originals
that
unaltered
the
we   no   longer   possess)
were
of
abbreviated
highly
style
written
the
in
the   XIV   th   and   XV   th
in   which
or
characteristic
single
letter,
centuries,
often   made
a   whole   word.
do
Evidently,
duty
for
other
to
sign,
is
of   what   he   was   copying   would   be   very
likely
scribe   ignorant   of   the   sense
this   was   very
the   word
the
read
often
than
guess
related   —
to
rather
to
at
it;
On
we
find   MSS.
are   very
nearly
account,
that
case.
this
a   good
times
a   and
deal
c   and
at
differing
as
such,
instance,
for
g,
e,
are   much
with   others   which
whilst   agreeing
readings,
respective
their
in
more   remotely
considera-
and
taking
Nevertheless,
into
this
related.
all
I   may
fixed   and
conclusions.
point
certain
definite
think
to
tion,
common
source
(X)
It   seems
place
evident
the
that
the
in
first
our   MSS.   have   been
first   copy
of
not
from   which
the
copied,
all,
is
all
to   be
text   which
corrupt
unintel-
places
so
as
quite
but   a
certain
in
is
1 —  5,
whose   mistakes
and
notes
60,
(see
to
ligible
27,
18),
pp.
1.
1.
nine   MSS.   and
only   by
can   be
have   been   repeated
corrected
the
in
all
conjecture.
The   MSS.   may
from
into   two
be
standpoint
the
divided
classes,
their   common
other   and
source:
the
their   agreement   with
each
with
of
other.   This
Dublin   MS.   (h)
the   rest   are   on
is   on   one   side,
and
classi-
the
that   show   how
is   based   on
gives
often
foot-notes
the
fication
critical
that   produce
an
not
from
readings
readings
others;
the
that
differ
all
of   the
considerable   modification
arbitrary   and   accidental   difference,
but
Thus,   abcdefgi   must   have   been   copied   from
single   manu-
text.
original   X
we
may
which
and
which
stands
the
Y,
in
to
script
call
the   Y   group,
having
the   same
stands
Again,
apart,
as
relation
in
h.
distinctive   peculiarities   —
of   which
one
the
that
for   instance,
several
is,
the   end   —
/:   much
Argumentum
and   agreeing
oftener
with
placed
at
is
it   may
be
con-
considered
group
any
as
than
so
other
of
that
its
