---
page: 16
pdf_page: 16
---
INTRODUGTION.
XII
readings   oiabcdefg   very
The
link   between   them
and
necting
h.
can   be
and
and
no
doubt
agree
there
contradicting
that
often
in
i,
these   seven   MSS.
There
the   very   same
were
from
copied
are
source.
many
of   the   most
one
but
here
proofs
of
select
to
will
suffice
this;
it
The
from   fructum
words
on
ministerio
81,
to
striking,
24,
25.
p.
1.
e   f   g,
supplied   by
another   hand
and   have   been
absent   from
are
This   agreement
can   be
and
accounted
not
certainly
accidental,
in
d.
is
the   supposition   of   a   common   source.   This   original   (Z),
for   only   by
there-
as   Y
the   same
source
of
stands
the
relation
to
to
sisterly
fore,
in
h.
e   f   g   do
from   Z
the   same   way.
c   d
proceed
But   a
not
in
all
and   f   were
copied
only
(before
correction)
think
directly
that
b,
copies   might
and
even
from
hypothesis
Z;
of   intermediate
the
for
these,
and   f
between
be
on
account
nearer
allowed,
of
relationship
closer   agreement   of   d   with
i.   At
and
all   events   the   resemblance
and
correction)   and   g   on
between
e   on
c   and
one
and
hand,
the
(before
and
spelling.   This
even
extends
the   other,
strikingly
to   the
close,
fol-
is
would   appear
lows   from
and
the
with
variants
the
foot-notes,
in
still
evidence,   were
the   difficulties   mentioned
it   not
greater
the
outset.
for
at
These
c   and   e
prevented,
not
only
of
of   the
variants
careful   selection
proper
but
of   f),
proof-sheets.
correction
too,
of
also
the
(partly,
The   relationship   of   a   with   g   may   also   be   demonstrated   by
a   proof   extrinsic
which
I   have
the   index
of   catchwords,
the
ascer-
to
text
carefully
(as
tained)   belongs   to   these   MSS.   alone.   A   close   examination   has   shownme   the
or   vice   versa.   We   can
of   a   and   c   being   copied   from   g   and   e;
impossibility
a   and   g
are   copies   of   anotherMS.
only   frame   a   third   hypothesis,
that
viz.,
that   A   and   B,
(B).   So
(A)   and
c   and
e   proceed
again   from
another
that
not   come   down
to   Z
which   have
the   same   relation
stand
as
to
us,
in
b,
and   f
The
MSS.
be
may,
transmission
of
nine
therefore
the
set
d,
following   diagram:
the
forth
in
