---
page: 122
pdf_page: 163
---
General
Index.
Abolition,   the,   of   simony,
ot   certain
is   very   difficult,   26.
Blindness,
rulers,
the,
14.
Boniface
belong
does   not
Abrogation,
the,   of   a   law,
28,
29.
VIII,
to
Bulls   of   provision   are   unlawful,   48.
in   any
and
the   Pope,
it   requires
case
io3,
greater   zeal   on   the   part   of   the   monks,
ioq.
Absentee
in   Scotland,
beneficiaries   should,
as
a,   if   unfit,   should   retuse   a   bishopric,   46.
Canon,
receive   no   income,
sent   from   Rome   to   England   should
32.
Cardinals
Accidenls   without   a
subject,   3q,   69.
to   any
not   be   admitted
positions,
32.
if   attended   by
Acts,   though
arc
Ceremonies,   heavy   fees   for,   73;   empty   pretences
positive.
sin,
sin   is   a   mere   defect,   25.
called   sinful,   though
payments
only
bodily
they
for
are
that
Administration,
of   temporalities,
the,
infe-
the   "Church   bur-
is
trouble   and   cxpense,
74
rior   to   the   proper   spiritual   functions   of   thc
dened   with   them,
76.
Pope,
the   buyers   and
3o.
thc
Christ   cast   out
sellers
in
Admission
paid
order,
into
a   religious
for,
if
entercd   to
the
templc,
disciples,
his
9,
11
unlawful,   84.
mystic
signification   of
doors   being   closed;
Advowsons,   simonically   purchased,
12;   condemned   to   death   as   an   arch-
90.
this
act,
Alga^el,
69.
heretic,
101.
withdrawn
Alms
should
be
defensive
as
the,   what   parts
by
Church,
of
it   are   infected
measure   against   Papal   claims,   56.
to   end   of   the   book.
simony,
p.   27
Anecdote   about   a   rich   miser's   servant   74.
holy,   forbidden   to   besold   undcr   severe
Chrism,
his   maxim
Anselm,
that   the
slightest
sin
St.,
penalties,
77.
even
should   not   be   committed,
to   save
thc
Christians   should   obey   the   Pope   only
in   so
far
world,
97.
as   he   follows   Christ,
65.
Anlichrist,
68,
63,
28,
65,
45,
Clement,
6,
81,
44,
3i,
56.
St.,   41,
elected   and   ought
Clergy   the,   was
io3.
101,
primitively
which   a   priest
Appointments
or
for
to   be   so   now,
unfit,
is
36.
are   taken   from   wrong   motives,
which
con-
Clerks   should   not   be   promoted
for   secular   ser-
stitute   simony,
vice,   44.
17.
Appropriations   of   benefices   by   religious   houses,
bc   more   prospe-
Colleges   would   not
but
fail,
a   source   of   simony,   88;   are   not   good   though
if   there   were   no   appropriation,   94.
rous,
allowed   by   the   Pope,   89;
should   not   be   got
fifteen,   which   if   a   Pontiff   possesses
Conditions,
by   monks"and
recom-
though
even
friars,
a   true   Pope,   64.
he
is
Conlempt   of   Christ   shown   m   the
mended   by   their   superiors,
106.
invention
ot
Aquinas,
his   approbation
definition   of
the
of
new   naditions,
9.
simony   given
in   the   Decretals,
Contradiclion,   the,   ofDccretals,   with   eachother,
14.
Aristoteles'   axiom
that   what
is   violent   cannot
52.
29,
last,   97.
Addenda,
Corrodies,   unlawtulness
84,
ot,
85.
Avicenna,   69.
p.   »5.
Avignon
is   the   fountain   head   of   simony,
Council   ot   Lyon,
9.
56.
Authority,   human,wrong\y  equaUed   toDivine,   39.
with
or
Creatures,
arc
related
spiritual
all,
Avarice,
the,   of   Bishops,   ji.
something   spiritual,
i5.
Danger,
holding
patronage,
Barbers'
of
24;
fecs   for   tonsures,
the,
its
78.
of,   who   troublc
Belial,   sons
tlic   church,
abuses,   36.
1?.
Death   ought   not
011   simoniacs,
Benefice,a.:   implies   duties   to   be   performed,   107.
to   be
infiicted
St.,   and   Pope   Eugenius,
but   they   should
Bernard,
be
left   alone,   104;
if   their
63.
the   work   of   a,   may   bedesired,
company   cannot   bc   shunned,
their   fellowship
Bishop,
but   not
the   dignity,
can,
io5.
22.
Defences,   sophistical,   of   simony,
Bishops   tainted   with   simony,   70
should   havc
/4.
Decretals;   how   thev   define   simony;   the
only   the   necessaries   of   life,   82.
defini-
the,   of   those   who   maintain   that   thc
contradiction   amongst
Blasphemy,
tion
faulty,
i5;
is
14,
Popc
is   above   every   law,
them,
2q.
64.
is   the   Pope,
from
themselves
Devil,   the   iioondav   (or   southern)
Blesstngs
accurst
the
arc
if   he   makes   unjust   claims,
accurst,
19.
3i.
