---
page: 123
pdf_page: 164
---
GENERAL   INDEX.
122
freely,   and   we
3o;   He   gives   his
fear   to   do   what
simoniacs
would
to
gifts
all
Devil.
tlie,
should   do
likewise,
97.
do,
i3.
is   more
is   added
God's   law   ;   whatever
to   simony,
thereto
end
an
the,   of
putting
Difficulty,
or   less   wrong,   5o.
26.
by   a   simo-
Gold   is   given   and   the
soul
Dilemma,
is   lost
either   the   papal   decree,
quis
"si
is   our   duty
niacal
or
prebendas",
is   heretical,
112.
gift.
it
is   an   impediment
to   lawful   promotion,
Greed
to   cnforce
io3.
102,
it,
his   condemnation
Gregory   XI,
of   thc
no   one   should
Door,
20;
signifies   Christ,
the,
12;
power
the   blood   of   the   Lamb,
of
binding
Papal
doctrine
the
that
with
unless
enter,
and   loosing
limitea,
68.
is
i3.
12,
Thomas
Gundophorus,
King;
of
signifies   the   Church
legend
Dove,
St.
mystically,
5;
the,
and,
the   simoniacal   sellers
106.
of,
y5.
Duty,   the   neglect   of,   renders   a   bishop   simoniac
by   a
tacit   contract   with   the
Heaven   awaits   rulers   who   put   down   simony,   7.
Devii.   72.
Heresy
divided
kinds,
three
into
chiefly
is
simony,   apostasy,   and   blasphemy;
42.   Two   sorts
exists
1;
Election   by   the   people
best,
is
amongst   the   clergy,   especially   in   high   places,
of,   49.
is   nursed   by   endowments,
8.
prophecy
Gehazi
Elisha's
against
tullilled
simoniacs,
Heretics,   Different   sorts   of;
friars,
aeainst   the   Church,
rulers   who   support   simoniacs,
9.
and
6.
many
Endowments.
of   them   should
sup-
be
presscd,   37;   ought   not   to   be   saved   by   wast-
ing   ihe   goods
o.f   the   poor,
96.
ldolalry   of   simoniacs,   i3;   incurred   in   thrusting
Eiidowmenl
is   the   nurse   of   heresv,   8;   dcspoils
oneself   into
20.
office,
the   Church,   38.
Ignorance   which   the   Bishop   pretends   of   simony
Endowed   orders,   simony   among   them,   ch.   VII,
to   know,
he   ought
ad   ordinations;   7S;
79.
pp.   84—98.
Impeccability   cannot   belong
to   the   Pope,
3i.
might
Episcopal
performed
consecrations
be
of   each   member
Income,
of   the   clergy
yearly,
just   as   well   by   a   holy   layman,   76.
would   amount   on   an   average   to   1000   marks,
Episcopal   duties   cannot   be   performed   by   simo-
89.
niacs,
VIII'   s   law   that
111.
Boniface
Injustice
ot
the
first
Eucharist,
prevalent
doctrines
person   of   many   vvho   presents
con-
the,
false
a   papal   pro-
ccrning,   39,   69.
shall   have   the   benefice,   29.
vision,
Eusenius,   Pope,   and
St.   Bernard,
63.
Innocent   III's   authority
as   regards
the   Euclia-
that   good   may   come,   96.
F.vil   done
rist,   3q,   40.
Excommunication   need
not   bc   feared,
Irotty   of   the   blessingsof   simoniacs   whosc   blcss-
45.
Excuses,
temporal
alonc
that
the,
gift
is
ing
is   a   curse,
112.
bv
mockery
bought
corrodies,
are
of
less   heinous
that   of   simo-
IscartoVs
than
sin,
God,   86.
by   Christ,
no
niacs,
his
toleration
ex-
11
undcr   form
Exlortions
ordinations
of
at
frce
cusc   for   promoting   bod
priests,
91.
gifts,   78—80.
Jeroboam,   an   example   of   simony,
Falsity,   of   the   proposition   that   a   man
10.
is   good,
first   Pope   who   ordered
John   XXII   was   thc
the
if   not   morally   bad,   46.
payment   of   first   fruits,
58.
Favour,
the.   ofpatrons,   simoniacallv   obtained,
Joshua,
41.
is   always   very
Judas
thc   Church,   29;
activc   in
to   endowments,   35.
Fictitious   claims   as
men   now
sell   Christ   as   he   did.   43.
its   cxtinction,   mystic   sig-
Fire,
the
sacrificial
Judges   who   are   themselves   infectea   wfth   simony
nification
of,
i3.
are   incapable   of   judging   rightly,
100.
First   fruits   should
be   given
the   Pope,
not
to
Justice,   wrongfully   bought   and   sold,
i»   simonv,
their   payment
implies
simoniacal
55;
54,
contract,   not
explicit
but,
tacit,
5g.
the,   should   always   be   elected,   46;
Filtest,
e.
i.
the,   has   the   duty
but   for   place   and
King,
to   dispense
not   the
himself,
bencficcs,
in
fittest
time,   &c,   47.
must
kingdom,
be   the
his
in
3i;
33;
first
should   awake
morc
Founders
from   slumber,
wronged
of   monasteries,
by
44;
corro-
is
simony,
if   he
than
hc
guilty
tolerates
dies,
85.
if
Freedom   ot   the   Churcli,
the,   infringed   upon   by
let   leprosy   or   hostile   invasion   deso-
should
the   Pope,
his   realm,
late
16.
55.
Kingdoms   are   troubled   by   simony,
Free-tvill   given   us   by   God,
obliges
us,
act
io
7.
against   simony,
162.
contemplative   Orders
Friars   and
are
the
for
prctended
Labour,   corporal,
be
paid
for
to
most   part   simoniacs
in
by
tacit   consent
their
which
to   simony,   98 — 99.
ceremonies,
of
the
price
for
fees
would
be   very   smalll,
if   not
the
for
spiri-
tual   value   of   the   ceremonies,
75.
Geha^i,   the   OldTestament   type   of   the   simoniac,
promotion
for   one
of   asking
Lawfutness,
the,
whom   we   know
his   behaviour
wicked
to   be
than
that   of
9;
less
19.
fit,
modcrn   simoniacs,   60;
I.egal   proofoi   simony   is   sometimcs   impossiblc
his   punishment,
61,
and   may   be   dispeiised
with,   99.
66,   79.
sells   thmgs   spiritual
is   the   imagc   of   simony,
Leprosy
to   His   creatures,
C,od
6r;
like
16;
9,
it,
He   alone
and
being
master
is   hard
of
to   curc,   26.
sinless,
all
things   spiritual,   the   Pope   may   be   a   simoniac,
fallcn   on
thc   Popcs,
Leprosy,
has
spiritual,
61.
