---
page: 124
pdf_page: 165
---
GENERAL   INDEX.
12.
that   simony
of   the   world
Licenscs   simoniacally   purchased,
Peace,
requires
go.
thc,
;   an   Apostolic   mode   of   choice,
be   put   down,
should
Lots,   casting
io3.
41.
house
engagements,
St.,   king   of   France,   burned   certain   papal
Pecuniary
if   a
religious
Louis,
them,   may
perhaps   not
undertakes
be
bulls,   59.
ful-
Lucifer's   arguments   are   most   heretical,
3o.
87.
iilled,
fiesh   are   an   impediment
Penance,   the   sacrament   of,
Lush,
false   doctrines   pre-
of   the
to
the,
valent   concerning,   3g.
lawful   promotion,
20.
Luxury
a   Bishop
Pensions,   simoniacal   system
renders
in   food,   dress,
92.
etc.
of,
sbld   for   money,   89.
of   prelatcs,
simoniac,
Perfection,
religious,
q5.
81   ;
73,
72,
the,   wronged
Poor,
by   corrodies,
Lyon,   council
56.
85.
of,
upon
Pope   the,
counted
to   be
put
is   not
to
down   simony,
6.
the,   can   commit   simony,
27,   by   love   of
Pope,
if   unjust,   are
Maledictions,
blessings,   45.
Mark   of
wordly   pomp,
would
by
inventing
traditions
be
the   Beast,
the,
visible,
28,
if
own
seen   on
by
presenting
all   English   Bishops,
72,'   73.
gain,
for   his
29
28,
according   to   Canon   Iaw   may   be   said   by
curates   for   wordly   reasons,
usurps   the
Mass,
3o;
32,   which   include
by   simoniacs,
all   tem-
priests   except
king's   duties
sinful
110".
3i,
a!l
he   shows   himself   a   heretic
Mathias,
poralities,   33,   q3;
41.
St.,
his   excom-
Miriam   struck   with   leprosy,
by
his   exaggerated   claims,
40;
61.
Money
by
munications
does
another
to   be
benefice
not
feared,   ^5;
his
for
are
paid
bulls   of   provision   should   not   be   obeyed,   48;
its   lawful   reception,   ifthebene-
not   prevent
his   claim   to   be   appointed   by   God   like   Moses
do   not   know
20
simoni-
of
ficiary
is
it,
no
patronage
acally   taken   out   of   England,   44.
he
has
false,   53;
right
to
is
Monks
desert   and
and
do
all   claims   on
penance
this   point
should
the
in
fruits,   54,
first
laymen
infringe   on   the   free-
from
55,   and
involve   danger,
towns,
ousting
not
in
live
dom   of   the   Church,   55,   56;   heUkes   far   more
appro-
not   leave
should
places,
their
97
supreme
priated   churches   to   their
than   the
universal
vicars,
king,
his
107.
57;
power
Mortal
infected   with
the   buying
he
of
to   be
is   a
right
the
sin
fiction,
57;
is
is
is   simony   in   its   most   uui-
simony
damned,
i5,   and
authority
leprosy
of
the
his
61;
payments,
cannot
is   incurred   at   every   action
unlawful
legitimate
63,
versal   sense,
16;
of   a   man
set   up
18,   and
mortal
he   fhust
state   of
be
as   Antichrist,
not
64;
in
sin,
charges   made
according
but   should
corrected,
be   fearlessly
elections
to
ib.
in
to
63,
set   up   by   many   above   the   Gospel,   64;
human   traditions,
he
5o.
is
ot   the   Pope   cannot
Moses'   position
and
should   be   obeyed,
so   far   as   he
but   onlv   in
that
made
should
be   compared,
follows
Christ
satisfac-
65;
53.
tion,   when   wrong,
warning   from
take
66,
Gehazi   and   Simon   Magus,
and   go   back
67,
Naaman's   leprosy,   simony   figured
by,
9.
nis   pre-
to   primitive   simplicity   67,
68,   g3
of   choosing
fittest   for   any
the   very
Necessity
in   want
fiction,   89
tence   of   being
is   a
his
charge,
abrogate   laws   may
to   extreme
5i.
go
right
to
Niniveh,
32.
lengths,
io3.
Noonday   devil,
the,
3i.
the,   of   simoniacs   ought   to   be   con-
Possessions,
Nepotism
in   the   Church,
92.
and
confiscation
far   juster
this
fiscated,
is
than   the   right   of   conqucst,
7.
inculcated   by   the
Poverty^
of   the   clergy,
the,
far   as   our
Obedience
is   due
only
so
rulers
in
laws   of   the   Church,
83.
follow   God's
law,"io2.
of,   in   Chrisfs   Church,
Preaching,   the   necessity
Wyclifs
simony,
Objections
of
detinition
to
108.
disposed
to   the   doctrine   that   the
the   membcrs
25;
of,
24,
alone
are
5i — 54.
Predestinate,
ot
the,
fittest   should
bc
refuted,
elected,
Chrisfs   Church,   3o.
the,   of   giving   up
Obligation,
a   benefice   obtain-
of   any   person
to   an
Presentation.
the,
officc,
;   how
ed   simoniacally
it   extends,
if   made
far
is   wrong
21.
ihough   allowable,
in   pre-
buy   their
the,   Bishops',
are   said
petuity,   as   of  any   member   of   an   orderchoseu
to
OJJiciers,
offices,
8t.
by
itself,   90.
how
Orders
tor   pay
abuse
only
taken
this
is   in   want,   89.
Pretence,
the,   that   the   clergy
might   bc   avoided,
86.
is   an   impediment   to   lawful   promotion,   20.
Pride
Ornaments,   consecration
demand
of:
fees
may
for,
simony
8.
tem-
without
Priests
poral   stipend   for   their   spiritual   labours,
16,
but   not   more   than   they
really   need,
16,
17
Papal
collectors   should
not
be   tolerated,
10^.
if   simoniacs,
lose   their   priesthod,
18,
19.
Patrimony   of   the   Crucified,   the;   abuses   ofthe,
should   not   be   prefer-
if   good,
even
Priest,
a,
93.
to   a   better   layman,   46.
i3,
red
Patronage   the   danger   of   24,
ought
belong
to
if   personally   sought   after,   unlawful,
Promotion,
was
founder
of   the
benefice   34;
to   benehces,   how   imperfectly   obtained,   6.
the
at
to
20
and
therefore   could   not
lay   hands,
distributed   and   managed   by   pos-
in
Property   got,
first
lawfully   have   come
nto   those   of   the   clergy,
is   an   occasion   of   simony,
sessioners
^8.
its   abuses,   36.
35
to   canon   law   admit-
34,
Prostitutes   are   according
St.,   struck   with   blindness
notwithstand-
Paul,
to   accuse   simoniacs,
ted
110.
his   good
intentions,
ing
38.
St.   Peter
Paul.
to   his   face,
63,   68.
resisted
St.,
Rank   implies
Paymenls
lavmen
of   convcnts
defence
responsibility,
108.
for
to
Pope
church
Reformation
by
are   simony,
of   the
the
the,
g5.
would   be
Payment   andscrvice   ought   to   be   inseparable,   55.
a   great   miracle,
o3.
