---
page: 125
pdf_page: 166
---
GENERAL   1NDEX.
124
is   committed   by   those   who   apply
Rehoboam^s   reign
is   the   type   of   the   division   of
to
18,
19
Rome   for   benefices,   23;   does   not   consist   in
the   Church,
81.
the   mere   exterior   act,   24   ;   is   a   heresy,   because
Religious   houses,   pensions   to,
92.
and
is   contrary
to   simony,
the   de-
to   Scripture,
Remedies,   thiee,
is
93.
it
of   the   submission   to   a   false   doc-
fence
Requisites,   of   a   judge,
100,
101.
of,
the",
to   catch   men,
Resistance   to   the   Pope's   claims
the   devil's
net
is   a   duty,
trine,
25;
32.
is
of   monks
is   of   old   standing   in   England,   62;   com-
26
in   matters   con-
Responsibility,
the,
mitted   very   much
the   endowed   Orders,
cerning   simony,   106.
in
84,   and   seq.;
committed   whenever
any
a   pope
the   only
Righteousness
title   to   a
in
is
is
given
claim   over   temporalities,
present
or
received
for   a
gift   oi
3o.
is
invalid   by   Wy-
God,   86,   whenever   religious   men
ihe   Church
Rites   of
rendered
aspire   to
prelacies,   87;   simony   amongst   temporal   ru-
clif's   doctrine;   and
justly
so,
109.
lers,   Ch.   VIII,
Robbery   of   the   Church,   an   o"bjection   against   lay
to   end.
Sin,   the,   of   acting   against   one's   conscience   even
rule,   37.
whenever   we
Rome   should   not   be   applied
to   do
right,   48;
incurred
to   for   benefices,   23.
set
aside   what
by   which
any
consent
is   best   for   us,
action
Rule,   the,
to
52.
is
Society,   Early   English   Text,
106,   note.
iudged,   98.
Sodom   and   Gomorrhah's   sin   was
14;   they   are   simoniacs   by
less   than   that
Rulers,   blindness
of,
of   simony,
consent   to   simony,   98.
76.
Sodomy,
spiritual,   8.
Sophisms   in   defence   of   simony,
14.
32,   and   note.
Scots   the,
is   God's
the,   of   fitness   for   any   office,
Standard,
a   dove
the;   Church,
Significations,   mystic;
is
if   departed   from,   more   and   more   un-
will
;   Naaman's   leprosy   is   simony,   9;   the   whip
fit   persons   are   chosen,   47.
with   which   Christ
out   the"buyers   and
cast
if   known
to   be   wrong,
should
be
Superiors,
sellers   signifies   the   cords   with   which   simo-
rebuked,
107.
door
bound,
niacs
are
Lot's
figures
11;
from
Suspension
of   simoniacs
offices   tpso
all
which
Sodomites
strive
Christ,
spiritual
facto,
110.
to   break
open,
Christ
entering
to
his
12;
doors
being
the
closed,
figures
disciples,
down
Temporal
advantage,
putting
ot
the,
that   the   doors   should   be   closed   to   simoniacs,
simoniacs;   the   possessions   of   those   heretics
fire   going   out   when   Jason
ib.;   the
sacrificial
should   be   confiscated,
83.
bought   the   priesthood
7,
loss   of
the
signifies
lemporal   lucre,   the   desirc   of,   renders   a   bishop
chanty
church   through   simony,
the
in
i3,
simoniac,
70.
signifies   hypo-
14;   the   whiteness   of   leprosy
Thomas   Aquinas,   Saint,   approves   the   definition
Rehoboam's
62;
the
reign
crisy,
signifies
of   Simony   given
in   the   Decretals,
14.
division   of   the   Church,
81.
by
should
be   refused
the   people,
Vithes
94;
Sign-rvor shippers,
36,   39.
may   be   made   over   to   another   poorer   parish
Simon   the   Magician,
67.
2,
witn   the   consent   of   the   people,
109.
Simony
the   Holy   Ghost,
sin   against
is   a
is
1;
a   leprosy   very
Its   de-
difficult   to   cure,
2;
1,
Unfitness   tor   a   charge   cntails   the   duty   of   resig-
inordinate   will
consists   in
the
2;
finition,
exchange
for   temporal
ning
things,
spiritual
to
22.
it,
and   may   exist
the,   of   buying   and
wiihout   any   external
selling   things
Unlawfulness,
act,
2,
spiritual,   and   not
in   every   mortal
is   implied
the
constitutes
3;
sin,
fact,
3;
si-
its
it
common   meaning
mony,
is   an   inordinate
contract
i5.
Unlawjulness   of   corrodies,   84,
only
by
not
to   obtain
spiritual
85.
office,
ib.;
munus   a   manu),
means
of   money,
Urban
VI.   Pope,   appealed   to   that   he   should   re-
but
61
rendered   (munus
nounce
and
ab   obsequio)
this   world,
services
riches   in
67.
all
(munus   a   lingua),
of   influence   employed
3.
put   down
should
Vestments,   consecration
a   heresy,   4;
be
fees   for,   78.
of,
is
it
Vicar,   the,   of   Christ   must   live   as   Christ   did,   54.
spiritual   sodomy,   8;
by   secular   lords,
5;
is
most
God's
grievous
the
against
sin
is
War   will   continue   so   long   as   simony
exists   amongst   the
lasts,   9;
grace,
religious
in
9;
8,
among   men   can
universitie"s   and
because   good
which
spring
private
colleges,
will
in
come   to   destruction,
only   from   good
will   consequently
to   Christ,
will
10;
9.
Chnst
is   most
which
God's   law,
Whip,
with
out
against
the
cast
directly
the,
12
is
to   force   open
the   door   of   God,
an   attempt
buyers   and
its   mystic
sellers   in   thc   temple,
in   the   fact   of   buying   and
consists
not
signification,
ib.:
11.
Whiteness
mystic
but
selling   things
its   unlawful-
lcprosy,
ot
of
signification
spiritual
in
i5;   cannot   be   mantained
to   be   a   buv-
ness,
62.
the,
Wyclif   defends   his   own
of   simony,
ing   or   selling
of   things
the
spiritual,
definition
defi-
is   committed   by
nition   being   too
his   reasons,
lax,
16;
14;
i5,
i5.
14,
and
by
perhaps
judges
unjust
dishonest
(in   a   wide   sense)
Zeal   in   doing
duty
can   alone   atone
traders
but   uni-
one's
for
16;
is
all
17,   18;   causes   great   evils   in   theChurch,
the   unlawful   reception   of   a
yersal,
benefice,
21.
