---
page: 126
pdf_page: 167
---
Addenda.
in   Rome   without   money,
The   work
which
Wyclif
pointed
P.
out   that   lhe
to
22,
14.
1.
alludes   is   obviously   De   Officio   Pastorali,   wnich
cause   was   poverty,   and   asked
for   a   fixed   sub-
was   published   by   Lechler,
i863.   There   are
sidy   upon
ecclesiastical   revennes   to   be   granted
se-
which   may
veral   passages
him.   C.   X.
serve
2   (towards   the   latter   half),
to
elucidate
ff.   216
in   De   Simonia;
2  B
Wyclif   calls   this   a   'scandaloza   peticio',
Pars
others
a   l
especially
217
in   which   Wyclif   accuses   himself
and   proceeds
c.   XI,
his
epithet
consi-
to   justify
at
p.
4.5
concerns
being
temporal
derable   length.   His   authority   for   the   fact
not
of
as
faultless
is   the
possessions,   and   points   out   the   means   of   aton-
'cronica   que   intitulatur   fiores   historiarum'.
mg
Compare   De
36.   De
Veritate   Sacre   Scripture.
such   shortcomings.
for
P.   68,
Si-
1.
:   "Omnes   enim   sumus
This   work   ot   Wyclif   has   not   yet   been   publish-
monia,
in   inpetra-
21
p.
the]   Wyclif
and
execucione
in   accepcione,
bene-
considers
Society
cione,
it   un-
in
ed,
et
But
ecclesiastici   maculati
necessary   to   wait   until
Wyclif,
."
its   publication.
ficii
21.   A
present   passage,   seems   to   allude   to   his
according
corrody,
an
the
P.   84,
in
to
1.
cominentary   on
interesting   and   valuable   communication   by   Mr.
of
Mathias,
the
eleclion
St.
Matthew,   "was   a   life   annuity,   granted   by   a   con-
Pars   2»,
c.   IX,   pp.   42,
I   also
a   short
find
43.
commentary   on
immediate
payment.
Thus,
an
vent
Paul's   sketch   of   the   virtue
against
St.
of   Lillebourn   made
p.   n
1327,   Lord   William
ought   to   have,   Pars
i   a
a   Bishop
about
c.   IV,
of   Winchesler   a   conside-
over   to   the   Convent
is   a   mistake   here.   Thc
1.   26.   There
rable   property   about   10   miles   from   the
P.
city,   in
4.2,
return   for   which   the   Convent   paid   him   yearly
26,   and   concerns
note   belongs
to.   P.   42,
the
I.
£   10   in   money
;   robes,   &c.   to   value   of   £
tractateDe   Potestate   Pape.
It   is   not   yet   publish-
.   o
2.   3
payment
and
been
and
in   kind
has
oats,   &c.)
fortunately
but
copied,
ed;
(hay,
certain
it
worth
about   40   shillings.
M.
of   the   Prague
is   a
Patera,
there
lihrarian
the
i334,
chief;
In
so   kmd
the   Convent   accounts
been
to   send   his
has
of
the   last   pay-
University,
note   in
as
and   'nothing   more,   because   he
ment,
copy   for   perusal.
Wyclif,
is   dead'.
place,
in
this
evi-
dently   alludes   to   Ch.   IV.   of  De   Potestate   Pape,
pays   £   5o,
one   Richard   Becke
In
in
i33o,
towards   the   end,   especially   from
return   for   a   corrody   of   one   conventual   loaf   and
180   a*.
one   pot   of   conventiial   beer
daily.
corrodies   may
3o.   De   Rege.
These
There
had
have
P.   44,
are
several
their
rise
1.
person   who
in   De   Officio   Regis,
providing
bearing   directly   on
pages
of
case
the
for
in
et   seq.   There,   hbwe-
wisned   to
property
See   pp.
convent,
give
the
this   matter.
his
to
176
himself   without   support.
nothing
found
but   could
not
respecting
be
leave
ver,
the
to
is
became   a   regular
"cavendo   tanquam   venenum,   etc."
not
In
times,
(but
iater
it
way
ready   money.
always
of   raising
thrifty)
When
7.   In   De   Poteslate   Pape,
c.   X,   we
the   monasteries   were
one
suppressed,
P.
5g,
I.
iind   a   lengthy   account   how   the
of   the   enquiries   that   the   commissioners   had   to
Pope,
in   ans-
make   was   what   corrodies   each   had
wer   to   complaints
could   be   had
to   pay."
nothing
that
