---
page: 128
pdf_page: 169
---
is   nowready;
The
and   the
Society's   book
1896
for
works   for   1897   and   1898   are   in   the   binders'   hands,   and
to   such   Members   as   will   pay
can   be   sent   next   month
The
Subscriptions
Subscription
for   those   years.
their
for   1896   became   due   on   Jan.
1,   and   should   be   paid   at
Sec,   J.   W.   STANDERWICK,
Hon.
once
to   the
Esq.,
GENERAL   POST   OFFICE,   LONDON,
Cheques
E.C.
to   be   crost,   'London   and   County   Bank.'
<$lte
J^orict|r.
ffiHgqlijf
Tenth   Report
Committee,   for
Executive
1896.
of   the
(April,
1896.)
The
that   the   Society   gets   from   its   printer,
continued
help
Carl   Georg   Fromme
Mr.
combined
Vienna,
with
of
the
devotion   of   its   editors,   M.   Dziewicki   and   Prof.   Loserth,   aided
by   Mr.
Matthew,   alone   enables
to   produce
its   books
in
it
time,   and   in   advance.
The   volume
comprising   the
third   and   fourth
1896,
for
parts   of   Wyclif  's   Opus   Evangelicum,   edited   by   Prof.   Loserth,
i.s   bound   and   ready   for   issue.
The   volumes   for   1897   and
1898,   De   Logica
edited   by
II,
M.   H.
De
and
Dziewicki,
by
Simonia,
edited
Dr.
Prof.
Herzberg-Frankel   and   M.   H.   Dziewicki,
are   in   the   binders'
hands,   and   can   be   issued   next   month
to   any   Members   who
will   pay   the   two   years'   subscription   in   advance.
The
clear   of   debt   to   the   end   of   1895
Society
but
is
it
owes   Mr.   Fromme   £350
three   volumes
for
of   1896-8,
its
and
about   enough
in   hand
has
to   pay
binders
it
for
its
The   Committee   thoefore   appeal
covering   these
volumes.
to   Members
for   three   years'   advance   subscriptions
at   once,
start   may   be   made,   free   from
so   that   a
fresh
all
liability,
at   the   future   years'   work,   1899-1912.
For   1899   and   1900-1,   De   Logica
edited   by   M.   H.
III,
Dziewicki,   and   Prof.   Loserth's   edition   of   De
Civili   Dominio
III, — whose   sheets   Dr.   Reginald   L.   Poole   and   Mr.   F.   D.
II,
side-notes, — have   been
Matthew
see,   and
R.
L.   Poole
Dr.
some   time   at   press,   and   may   be   finished   this   year.
For   1902
1903,   M.   Dziewicki
kindly   undertakeu
has
or
edit   the
to
