---
page: 17
pdf_page: 17
---
XIII
1NTRODUCTI0N.
of   d   was   modified   by   a   thorough
however,
Subsequently,
value
the
a   manuscript
with
correction
be-
so
related
closely
that
the
text
to
h,
latter   MS.   The
comes
almost
identical   with
of   the
corrections
of
that
a,
much
are   perhaps   based
which
on
and
an
are
important,
less
text,
Of
do
any
not
sub-
great
course,
these
features
to
extent.
alter
its
of   the   MSS.
do
change
sequent
not
modifications
the
original
relations
each
other.
to
The   best   text
is   supplied   by   h.   This
is   seen,   not   indeed   at   first   sight,
attentively   comparing
the   others;   both
but
pedigree   and
with
after
its
it
in   d   tend
of
confirm
the
corrections
the
similarity
decision.
to
this
It
in   most   of   the   places   where
generally   gives   the   best   sense   of   all   of   them:
it
seriously   differs   from
usually   found   preferable.
its   readings
are
the
others,
a   text,   we
However,
ourselves   both
are   obliged   to
to   construct
of
avail
and   of   the   Z   group.   In   doubtful   cases   and   in   the   case   of  indifferent   variations,
have
have
kept
noted
so
them,
readings
as
of
the
far
to
It
h.
may
be   wrong,
such
but
admit;
of   following
often
the
principle
in
is   the   only   means   we   have
the   MS.   which
cases
the   best
main,
the
in
is
editor's   own
formed   by
of   preserving
text   from
being
the
the
arbitrary
I   ought   even
have
choice.
followed
but
circums-
of   h
the
spelling
to
When
I   was
rendered
stances
indeed
Vienna,
that   impossible.
able
in
with   my   copy;
the   Dublin   MS.
Ingram's
(by
courtesy)
Prof.
collate
to
I   was
it   was
I   had
but
not
until   long
the   best
returned
certain   that
after
In   my
should   have
had
and
overlooked
the
collation,
spelling,
it.
