---
page: 129
pdf_page: 170
---
54-61
Nos.
Miscellaneous
Catalogue,
Tracts,
Shirley's
in
copied   by
which   were
Buddensieg,   and   were
Dr.
the
in
hands   of   Dr.   Schnabel   of   Dresden,   as
till   his   death
editor,
for   1902   or   1903,   the   De
three   years   ago.
Also,
Potestate,
for   many   years   been
which   has
in   the   hands   of   M.   Patera
of   Prag,
just   been
has
Loserth,
Professor
sent
so
to
J.
For   1904,
probably
go
next
that
press
it   will
year.
to
the   Pev.
Dr.   Buddensieg   hopes
to   produce
of
edition
his
great   Summa
De   Veritate
all   Wyclifs
;   and   then
Theologiae
type,   except   the   De   Mandatis   Dei   and   De
will   be   in
Statu
Innocentiae,   which   Mr.   F.   D.   Matthew   will   take   up
as   soon
as   his   help   to   other   editors   leaves   him   time   for   his   own   texts.
The   other   works   of   Wyclif   remaining   unprinted   and   not
in   the   second   volume   of   Miscettanies   %
likely   to   be   included
now   in   charge   of   the   Pev.   J.   P.  Whitney,   are,   by  Shirley's   Nos.
De   Materia   et   Forma.*
De   Imaginibus.f
26.
6.
De   Materia   (?).f
Peccatum   Mortale   et   Yeniale.t
2S.
7.
DeEnte,   Bk.   I*,   Bk.   II*
Errare   in   Materia   Fidei,   &c.+
32.
8.
Commentary
on   N.
?   not
Replicatio   de   TJniversalibus.*
Test.
9.
(45.
De   Universalibus.*
Wyclifs.t)
10.
De   Anima.*
De   Paupertate   Christi.t
11.
64.
De   Fide   Catbolica.*
?   part   of   De   Potestate   Papae.)
13.
(69.
De   Clavibus   Ecclesiae   *
De   Propbetia.*
24.
70.
"   pegging   away   "
Members
keep
till   the
have,   then,   to
work   they   have   set   tbemselves
is   done,   and   England's   long-
to   Wyclifs   memory
that,   money
For
due   debt
paid.
is
Who   will   give   it?
wanted.
In
Executive
increase   the   Society's
order
the
funds,
to
resolved   that   any   Member   may
Committee   have
give
the
to   any   Library
to   buy
person
fourteen
right
the
or
first
1882-95,
the
years
half-price
of
Society's   publications,
at
—  19
half — provided
and
volumes
that
guineas
at
sum
with
paid
1896,
Subscriptions
the
for
are
this
full
1897,   and
1898.
England,   Europe,   and   the   rest   of   the   Christian   world   owe
so   much   to   the   memory   of   Wyclif,   that   support   ought   to   be
his   Works,
forthcoming
for   the   printing
the
records   of
of
his   thoughts   and
Two-thirds   of   the   Society's   task   will
life.
is   for   our   Members
be   done   by
the
1900.
see   that
to
It
ready   and
other
Editors
are
third
finished
speedily.
is
Money   alone
is   wanting.
willing.
t   Not   copied.
*   Copied.
§   Shirley's   Nos.   43,   44,   47,   48,   68,   77,   92,   94,   95.
