---
page: 18
pdf_page: 18
---
XIV
INTRODUCTION.
my   own
the   MS.
more,
once
on
been
ask
time
obliged
for
to
this
responsibility;   for   the   late   Director   of   the   Imperial   Library,   Vienna,   did   not
it   to   be   sent   there   again.   This   rendered
seem   inclined   to   allow
it   impossible
for   me
been
I   have
and
do
obliged
intended;
follow
the
as
to
to
the   second   best   MS.   But
it   matters   very
the   copyists,
of
spelling
little;
i,
well   known,
but
not   follow
they
did
spelt   as
their   originals
as
in
that,
is
The   modern
might   have   been   adopted
of   Latin
chose.
as
spelling
just
but   that   would   have   destroyed   the   mediaeval   character   of   the   work.
well
Czernowitz,   Nov.
i8q5.
III.   Authenticity   and   Date   of   De   Simonia.
this   work,
Concerning
or   nothing
of
there
the
authenticity
is
little
No   one
with   Wyclifs
methods
to   be
acquainted
opinions,
of
his
said.
would
and
an
argumentation,
ascribe
instant
hesitate
for
his
to
style,
him.   He
in   De
De   Simonia
later   works
himself
instance,
to
his
(for
in
it   without   naming
according
author,
the
Apostasia,
refers
to
to
90)
p.
his   custom   when
of   his   own.
It   forms
quoting
part
tractates
distinct
great   Summa
and
has
an
equal
Theologiae,
such,
authenticity
as
of   his
parts.   We   may
is   named
add
any
besides
other
of   those
that
to
in
it
part   of   his   Summa;
to   which   the   note   in
lists   of   his   works,
i   also
as
all
est   liber   X
"Incipit   De   Symonia,
ordine   summe   sue."
bears   witness:
et
in
different   reason,   we
For
about
can   say   but
a   very
exact
the
little
outpour
this   work.
of   our
last   years
astonishing
date
of
of
the
the
In
for   any
is   very
accurate
date
precisely
author's
to
difficult
fix
life,
it
mention   some   event   which   was   taking
he   happens
his   works,
of
unless
to
sufficiently   known
which
and
whilst   he
place
besides
wrote,
to
his-
is
tory.   Now
in   De   Simonia.   On
is   no
such   mention
other   hand,
there
the
we
degree
of   approximation
are
get
able
the
date.
to
to
sufficient
De   Blasphemia,
seems
that   work,
Introduction
stated
as
the
to
in
to
when
been
have
the   beginning
or
of
written
the
1381,
1382,
in
at
De   Apostasia
certainly   precedes   De
was
Revolt
Peasants'
quite
recent.
before.   We   may
Blasphemia   ;   and   De   Simonia   comes
then   with   some
just
of   1380
or   towards
beginning
probability
place
the
the
treatise
at
last
after   De
the   end
Eucharistia,   which
and
immediately
of
quotes.
1379,
it
Herzberg-Frankel's
ends
Dziewicki
Mr.
of   the
Introduction
Dr.
part
here.
tor   what
responsible
follows.
is
