---
page: 19
pdf_page: 19
---
XV
INTRODUCTION.
after   September
certainly   comes
of   the
(the   date
1378
election   of
20,
It
court   of   Avignon
Antipope   Clement
the
alludes
as
for
the
to
VII),
it
the   works
But
of   simony
being
the
nest
fact
until
that,
all
is
9).
(p.
carefully   studied   —
a   labour   which
and   their
of   Wyclif   are   edited,
texts
future   — -
more
to   do
course   belongs
impossible
than
the
of
to
is
it
most
conclusion
exact
date
of
of
the
conjectural
as
arrive
to
at
Wyclifs   works.   The
too   many   and
cope   with
of   Wyclif   have
editors
to
more
and
go
cannot
examination
pressing
close
of
into
difficulties,
perfect   knowledge
words
and
expressions
which,
of   a
with
of
the
aid
them
might
give   an
enable
possibly
exact
of
annals
the
time,
that
to
doubtful.   At   any
it   would   be
though   even
the   labour
date
rate,
this
is
if   we
no
and
excuse
of   a
doubt,
antiquarians
us
future
lifetime;
will,
leave   something   for   them   to   do,
will   immeasur-
whilst   our   present   editions
ably
labours.
lighten
their
IV.   Contents   of   De   Simonia.
Wyclif   seems
digression   than
less   addicted
short   treatise,
In
to
this
wont.   He
keeps
and
generally
point;
the
division
his
his
to
strictly
is
Simony
committed   by
the   Pope,
clear   enough.
the
the
of
treatise
is
is
the   endowed
and
temporal   Lords.
Orders,
Bishops,
a   general
After
the
1 —  27)   Wyclif   attacks
definition   of   simony,   and   answers   to   objections
(pp.
the   Bishops   (pp.   70 —  84)   and   the   endowed   Orders
the   Pope   (pp.   27 —  70),
84 —  98),
end).   The
the   temporal   Lords
and   warns
(pp.   98
only
to
(pp.
short   —
the   main   subject   —
from
and
are   very
digressions
they
real
are   on
pp.   39   and
which   Wyclif
against
inveighs
the
doctrine,
in
69,
It   may
then
generally
of   absolute
received,
accidents
Eucharist.
the
in
be
to   examine
going
before
as
well
point
apart,
detailed
into
this
summary
the   more
of   Wyclifs
regards   simony;
doctrines
as
as
so,
am   thereby
of   my   remarks   on
some
the   same
supplement
enabled
to
in   De
subject
Apostasia.
the   Last   Supper,
of   the   sacramental   bread
Christ   having,
said
at
is   My   Body,
is   My   Blood,"
and
wine
c This
whilst   no   outward   change
this
of   the   bread
the   wine   took
or
and   from
question
place,
the
naturally,
the   very
In   what
thinking   mind:
arose
every
sense
those
are
in
first,
words
From
they   must
certainly   be?
an
as
examination
true
true,
of
other
words
well-known
passages,
Paul
especially
of
the
his
St.
in
became
Epistle
both
the
Corinthians,
to
universal
doctrine
the
in
it
