---
page: 20
pdf_page: 20
---
XVI
INTRODUCTION.
of   Rume   and
the   Greek   Church,
of   other   com-
to   speak
Church
not
in
separated   from   them   by
still   wider   differences,
is   impos-
munities
that
it
Christ's   Body   and
the   words   by
and
a   metaphor,
explain
that
sible
to
Such
being
Blood
present
Eucharist.
the
are
think
the
really
in
fact,
it   may   be
i)   Whether
of   Transub-
enquire
doctrine
the
interesting
to
more
stantiation   was
of   any
explanation
tending
anything
than
denial
2)   Whether
the   Sacrament;
to   deny
Christ's   presence
of
the
reality
in
Wyclif   went
farther   than   denying
doctrine   of   'accidens
sine   subjecto',
the
3)   How
the   Schoolmen
upheld   by
and
explanation
day;
of   his
far
his
and   how
condemned
presence   was
of   Christ's
unjustly,
real
far
justly,
the   Church   from
its   own   point   of   view.
by
What
1.   What
term?
ordinary
sense
of   the
Reality,
the
in
is
is
wax
between
and
orange
or
painted
one,
the
difference
real
of   mere
orange,
Evidently
painted
or   the
orange,
hallucination?
result
however   well
one
answering
of
only
only
deceives   the
painted,
sight,
to
reality.   An
artificial   orange   may
and
touch
deceive
of
the
the
too,
tests
of   taste   will   soon
the   sense
if   suitably   perfumed,
the   sense
but
of   smell;
real   —
object   we
and
touch
not
convince
see ;
smell
as
us
the
that
is
But   suppose   we
all   our
orange.
are   so
an
senses,
as
hallucinated
to
in
either   we   should
smell   and
an   imaginary   orange;
find
taste
see,
feel,
did,   we   should   no
longer
hallucination   did   not   last   long,
or
the
that
if
it
the   answer
be
reason   about
the
therefore,
to
state
to
in
all
It
is,
it.
a   permanent   and
coherent   manner,
given
of
that
sensible   tests
reality,
in
as   we
is   upon
conceive
objective
the
sensible
constitutes
reality
it:
it
founded.
taken
natural   science
of   these
value
together,
that
tests,
all
is
this   sense   no   Roman   Catholic   can   deny   —
And
the   doc-
or
at
least,
in
not   deny   —
Eucharistic   bread
of   Transubstantiation   does
the
that
trine
Christ's   Body
and
really   remains
not
consecration,
really
that
after
is
present.   Every   possible
is   answered
of   bread
of   the
sensible   reality
test
St.   Thomas,
I   need
admits
not
without
slightest   ambiguity.
the
say,
this
his   'Summa   Theologica'
and
elements
he
nourish,
the
asserts
that
in
intoxicate:   which
excess,   would
the   sacramental   wine,
if   taken
that
is
in
of   common
merely
Nothing   of   the
so
as
doctrine
far
sense.
reality,
is   changed   by
the   sacramental   words.
senses
go,
the
then,   how   can
be   Christ's   Body
this   bread
But
really
really,
is
if
it
a   mere   empty
only   bread?   Bearing   in   mind   the   hypothesis   which   excludes
answer.   We   must   believe
but   one
metaphor,
another
of
sort
there
in
is
