---
page: 21
pdf_page: 21
---
XVII
INTRODUCTION.
us   by
Christ's   words;
that   has
nothing
revealed
to
reality
to
reality,
together   with   and
can
inde-
do
coexist
senses;
with
that
reality
the
those   phenomena   which   we
reality   no   less
perceive;
true
pendently
of,
can   say
no
than
are
they
are
than   they
after
\ve
real
real.
less
true,
If
only   mean   what   we   outwardly   perceive.
bread',   we
c This
consecration,
is
is   Christ's   Body',   we   mean   what   we   do   not   perceive,
If   we   can
c This
say,
but   we   know
know
we
that   one
by
what
and
as
alone;
truly
faith
is
Therein
mystery.
Transubstantiation,
present
as
the
the
other.
as
lies
does
by
greatly   mistake)
not
Council
of   Trent,
defined
(unless
the
a   mere
pretend
assertion
or
explain
solve
that
either
to
in
to
It
is
it.
and
real   Body,
real   phe-
the   Host
nothing   present   but
there
Christ's
is
nomena
Christ's   Body.
It   does
anything
which
not
not
assert
are
that
St.   Thomas
and
is   very
of   the   bread
ex-
important.
annihilated;
this
is
the   bread   becomes
he
says
says
in)
pressly
contrary;
(transit
that
the
there   would   be
not   by   transformation,
Christs   Body;
an
then
exter-
for
not.   And   yet   there
change,   which
nal   and
an
c other-
there
sensible
is
is
c  otherness',   which   super-
as   modern   philosophers   would
say.   This
ness',
any
venes
properties
of
thing
without
of   the
the
the
affecting
least
in
for   want
and   what
that   was,
the   Real   Presence;
place
takes
called,
is
is
Transubstantiation.   Such
of   the   Church
doctrine
the
term,
better
of   a
is
It   condemns
it   was
of   Rome,
which
the   mystery   just
before.
as
leaves
those   who   say
because
but
not
Christ
present,
figure,
really,
in
that
is
condemns
would
be
against
(or
think,
Scripture.
that
at
least,
It
those   who
and
assume
the   bread
that
disapproves)
annihilated,
that
is
God
a   permanent
appearanoe,
hallucination;
for
creates
this
fantastic
It   condemns   those   who   say
would   attack   the   evidence
of   our
that
senses.
Christ's   Body
becomes
mere   bread,
(consubstan-
remaining
bread,
the
this   would
a   man,
be   tantamount
remaining
saying
that
for
to
tiation),
those   who
it   condemns
becomes
a   pauper,
In
short,
millionnaire.
all
and
the   non-sen-
our
causing
percepts,
sensible
the
either
reality
assail
And
to   be
wish
of   what
especially
present.
affirms
sible
reality
faith
of   Trent,
declaration
Council
that   the
the
attention
in
fact
to
to
its
call
remain
nowhere
without
on
accidents
decides
the
that
the
subject,
properties   —
and
appearances
it   merely
the
subject;
asserts
that
all
reality   —   remain   un-
with   what
I   have
which
sensible
coincide
called
is   no
longer   bread,
changed:
and
certain   mysterious
sense,
yet,
in
it
it   has   become
the   Body
of   our   Lord.
since
