---
page: 22
pdf_page: 22
---
INTRODUCTION.
XVIII
St.   Thomas
goes   farther,   and   admits
with   the   whole   School,
indeed,
c  accidens   sine   subjecto'.
But   this
is   an   attempt
the   theory   of   an
explain-
at
it   may   be   wrong".
a   very   successful   attempt)
(not   indeed
ing   the   mystery
the   Church
does
but
nothing;
a   heresy;
says
Wyclif
neither
calls
it
at   some
I   have   gone
make
a   dogma.
theory
length,
into
that
this
it
remarkable
have
Pusey,
read
because
with
insight
into
that
between   Anglican
gave
the
difference
opinion,
that
as
matter,
his
the
it
Roman
who
Real
and
Presence,
admit
Catholics
the
theologians
who
is   probably
of
term
use
question
Transubstantiation,
the
tnere
And
the   Real   Presence,
merely
Transubstantiation
words.
in
fact,
is
manner
exclude
such
explanations
inconsistent
as
defined
to
in
all
therewith.
2.   What
given   by
struck   Wyclif
explanation
the
as
intolerable
in
School,   was
of   the   bread;
their   theory
which,
of   the   annihilation
as
the
we   have
St.   Thomas,
remarked,
not
exact
doctrine
of
already
the
is
outcome
I   understand   him
it   seems
though
system.
of
logical
his
If
c  substance'
neither   where
appearances
bread
of
are,
the
rightly,
is
its
this   substance   having   become   Christ's   Body,
nor   anywhere
because,
else,
to   which
bread
is   no
other   mysterious
sense
longer
of   reality
the
in
it
like   manner,   when
I   have
is   not
but
already
referred
In
annihilated.
it
when
undergo
sacramental
change,
chemical
elements
the
the
g.
v.
Christ's   Body
becomes
there   no
because
wine
longer,
the
vinegar,
is
there   no   more;
but   Aquinas
of   wine
(or   appearance)
sensible
reality
is
by   God
new   substance
that   any
take
place
created
of
the
denies
to
is
absent.   He
the   new   nature
Christ's   Body   which   becomes
of
asserts   that
in   what   we
the   change
from
vinegar   proceeds
appearances,
the
real
in
reality;   —   though
a   mere
doctrine,
call   sensible
this   reality
his
as,
in
is
to   see   how
subjecto',   he
frankly   admits
'accidens
sine
that
difficult
is
it
c 'Quomodo
autem
aliquid   gene-
they   can   produce
ex
'subjectum'.
eis
qu.   LXXVII,
Respon-
(III   a
Pars,
videre.
art
rari
possit,
est
difficile
5.:
St.   Thomas'
deo
.)   But
century
the   Nominalists
following
of   the
set
aside,   and   by
their   multiplied   and   arbitrary   annihilations
cautious
doctrine
protest.   The
forth   Wyclifs
and
indignant
as
re-creations,
called
fact
is,
we
his   whole
system
philosophical   works,
our
see
author's
that
shall
in
if   we
the   ground
and
admit
of
the
annihilation,
possibility
to
as,
falls
St.   Thomas
we
escape
can
admitting
hardly
himself   says,
as
fact,
it
the
doctrine
of   'accidens
sine
subjecto'.
vvith
