---
page: 23
pdf_page: 23
---
XIX
INTRODUCTION.
an
explanation
that   Wyclif   could   not
looking
avoid
for
pity
It
is
to   be
there   was   none
But
where
excesses
adversaries
of   his
given.
the
What
to   them
and   he
found
onward,
system.
urged   him
reply
his
in
asserted.   That
as   the   remaining
we
of
so
he
bread,
far
fact,
see,
is
is
the   whole
But   he   went
on
meant.
assert
that
the
sensible
to
reality
is
it)   by
understands
he
of   bread
remained,
transubstantiated
nature
(as
the   iigure   of   Christ's   Body,   Now,
I   observed
it   becomes
as
the
that
fact
according
every
I)e   Apostasia,
Introduction
figure
reality,
the
to
is
in
its   own
the   same
its   own
though
time
has
Wyclif.
at
real,
truth,
to
It
it   was
Thus
not   purely   what
con-
before
the   bread
existence.
ideal,
is
by
Permeated
presence,
of
Christ's
figurative
the
secration.
reality
it
does
body
becomes
This
Lord.
and
our
explains
of
the
this
all;
is
away
and
odious
doctrine
of
every   mystery,
with
annihilation,
with
the
c  Sign-Doctors'   were
Here,   however,   we
which
see
admit.
driven
the
to
that   Wyclif   goes   beyond   the   mere   doctrine   of   Transubstantiation.   Believing,
he   no
doubt
believed
as   he
of   Universals,
objective
the
reality
in
dicl,
in   the   Real   Presence;   but,   driven   (perhaps   sorely   against   his   will)   to   explain
he   made   a   dogma
how
of   the   Church   subservient
this   presence   was
real,
his   own   philosophical   system.
and   the
the   understanding
belief
to
of,
in,
if   the   world   had   been   made   up
3.   Now,
and
of   theologians
philo-
opinion   would   not   have
that   our
possible
author's
quite
sophers,
is
it
When
he
condemned.
granted
been
judges
found
out
the
that
his
when
the   Host
learned
they
Universal;
as
of   Christ
real
existence
in
those   who
same
meant
he
speaking
the
as
bread',
of
'natural
that,
c  accidens
shrugged
might   have
they
their
of   an
subjecto',
sine
talked
but   would
perhaps   have
system,
philosophical
his
shoulders
his
left
at
does
world
not
orthodoxy
Unfortunately
Wyclif,
unquestioned.
the
for
doctrine   was
spread
His
and
philosophers
far
theologians.
only
contain
the   common
probably
even
and
and   wide   amongst
of   his
few,
people,
e  poor   priests',   understood
it   well.   The   vulgar   thought   they   knew
perfectly
was
and
c natural   bread
what
of
the
figure
that
also
well
signified;
it
Christ   was
when
they   heard
the   Bread
really
of   Life;
that
but,
Christ,
universal   had
figure   was
and
every
present,   because
every
universal,
They
were   no   more
able
they   stopped
to
short
there.
existence,
real
the   average   man
understand
of   our   days
able   to
understand   him
than
is
is   meant   by
curvature
of   a
dimension
or
what
space,
the
of
fourth
straight
line.
B*
