---
page: 24
pdf_page: 24
---
XX
INTRODUCTION.
There
in   Wyelifs
were
thus   two
one   seemingly
doctrine;
parts
may
be
and
all   but
other
the
the
quite
results
unintelligible:
clear,
to   have   by   me
instance,   which   may   throw
I   happen
guessed.
curious
some
"Lawrence   de
light   upon
Saintmartin,"
says
Berault-
the
subject.
livre   XLVI,
"having   received   com-
(Histoire   de   1'Eglise,
Belcastel
p.   121)
the   Host   out   of   his   mouth;
munion
and   notwithstanding
at   Eastertide,
took.
who
for   some
followed   him
remonstrances
of
the
the
distance,
priest,
He
it   home
mixed
and
he
then
it   with
other
hand.
food,
carried
his
in
it   was   no   more
any
worthy
than
saying
respect
other
of
that
ate
it,
bread."   This   was
1387.
in
who
Such
profanation   would
certainly   have
Wyclif,
horrified
in
belief  —
many   and   many
a   passage   declares
not   forced
not
feigned,
his
by
him
from
proceeding
from
condemnation,
but
hearty
of
the
fear
conviction   —
though
naturally   bread,
philosophical
Host,
that
the
is
I   quote   only   one,   from   De   Apostasia,
really   Christ's   Body.
but   itis
p.   243;
sufficient.   "Nos   autem   usque   ad   mortem
.   volumus
amply
ex
fide
.   quod   panis
sit   naturaliter   ante   consecracionem
et   vinum
defendere
post   consecracionem
corpus   dignissimum,
quia   vere
et   vinum,
sed
panis
the   same
et   realiter   corpus   Christi."   At
quite   conceivable
that
time,
is
it
Lawrence   de
Saintmartin   would   have   been   much
at   Wyclifs
astonished
horror.
of   Rome   condemns   any
As
when
the   Church
proposition,
rule,
it   condemns
of   the   words,
it   in   the   ordinary   and
usual   sense
caring
little
his   own   mind,
enough
author   meant   something   orthodox
whether
the
in
those   whom
but   very   much
amongst
effect   produced
whether
the
his
of   orthodoxy.   Now   orthodoxy,
according
doctrines   reach
in   favour
to
is
of   Rome,
the   Church
poorest   have
to   which
even
the
the
truth,
is
right.   And   therefore,
answering   the   question   propounded
to   the
as
justice
condemnation,   we   may   say
of   Wyclif  s
(of   course   from
or
that
injustice
it   may
the   above
from
point
of   view,
perhaps,
theological
standpoint)
it   was
have   been
of   justice   towards
unjust   towards
an
him,   but
act
that
others   who   were
even
to   misunderstand   him.
possible
sure
that
his
It
is
true,   would   have   been   an   additional
judges   mistook.   his   meaning;
which,
if
it   was
proof   that
easily   misunderstood.
Rome
condemning
from
propositions
very
practice
far
in
all
is
may
which
be
which
and
erroneous
of
the
themselves,
or
true
in
any
meaning
Should
and
obvious
one,
simply
erroneous.
popular
is
