---
page: 25
pdf_page: 25
---
XXI
INTRODUCTION.
that   Christ   was   born
to   prove
before
ten   years
or
attempt
instance,
for
dealt   with   by   chrono-
certainly   be
to   be
this   would
after   A.
D.
left
i,
even
even
logists   and   historians,
if   generally   believed,
because,
false,
if
it
And
upon
the   minds
whatever
would
have
no
of   Catholics.
in
effect
we
condemnation
an
specifying
every
that
almost
epithet
effect:
find
Now,
Wyclifs
and
dangerous,
scandalous,
temerarious,
heretical.
lastly
(though   no   doubt   nothing   was
certainly   tended
Eucharist
theory
of   the
in   Christ's   Real   Presence
further   from
to   destroy
the
belief
intention)
his
c  care
a   dogma
Church.   Those   who,
for   none
of
of   the
Gallio,
like
or   who
the   Church
that   both   Wyclif   and
convinced
are
these
things',
of   Rome   were
that   dogma,
of   course
consider
error
aflirming
will
in
in
any
unjustitiable   from
condemnation
of   view.
point
his
at   such
for   having
discussed
Perhaps
I   ought
apologize
here
to
and
elsewhere,
with
a   matter
so
dealt
great
length
abstruse,
so
often
My
under
consideration.
forming
very
part
of
so
small
the
treatise
I   was   anxious
to   set   before   the   public   certain   thoughts
only   excuse
that
is,
to   De   Apostasia
which   occured   to   me   after
I   had   written
the   Introductions
and   De   Blasphemta,
an   oppor-
shall   probably   never   have
which
and
publish   anywhere
tunity
else.
to
We   may   now
chapter   by
examiue   De   Simonta
proceed
to
itself,
chapter.
the   Holy
apostasy
Simony
Ghost,
as
Chapter
against
sin
is
I.
This   being
against   the   Son.
the   Father,   and   blasphemy,
against
sin
is
the   Church
guard
it   with
behoves
against
the   unpardonable
to
sin,
it
exchange
or
extreme
desire
an
(voiicio)
inordinate
to
care.
will
It
is
not
This
if   not
inordinate,
temporal
sin.
things.
for
is
spiritual
will,
We   may
and   God
to   God
grace
everlasting;
ourselves
sells
for
life
sell
if   we
every
to   Him.
general
sense,
ourselves
But,
sin,
give
in
us,
to
of   temporal
pleasure
preference
being
an
of   the
inordinate
act
will,
and
there-
soul
the
happiness,
devil,
thc
of
to
selling
eternal
is
to
is
it   means
an
more
unlawful
simony.
restricted
signitication,
fore
In
contract   to   obtain   some   spiritual   office.   Any   contract   of   the   sort   is   called,   in
is   money,
If   what
promised,
gift   (munus).
language,
theological
it
is
rendered,   munus
is   munus   a   manu   ;
ab
to   be
obsequio;
influ-
if   services
if
ence,   munus
the   clergy   are   infected   with   this   heresy,
Almost
lingua.
all
who
sold
turned
those
Christ
aud
worst.
highest   placed
those
are
the
and
the   Church
dove,
mystic
selling
doves
the
temple;
out
of   the
its
is
