---
page: 26
pdf_page: 26
---
1NTR0DUCT1ON.
XXII
according   to   Chrysostom
lurds   ought   to   put   this   down,
Secular
simony.
is
Pelagius.   We
and   Pope
a   Papal
fulfil   our
should
not   wait
edict
for
to
illicit   means
the   Pope   may
himself   be
of   obtaining
simoniac.
All
duty
benefices   —   whether
of   recommen-
rendered,
services
letters
petitions,
employment
person
dation   from
of   a
temporal
or
the
third
to
lords,
their   favour   —
those   who
simoniacs
render
get
benefices,
the
plead
in
to   persecute
dare
these   men,
heretics.   Yet
tainted   with
heresy,
and
thus
I —   6.)
the
faithful!
(pp.
who
the   same
others
Besides
persons,
are
there
these
into
fall
their   peace   and
by
not   pro-
though
holding
Friars,
heresy,
indirectly:
who
it   under
and
Rulers
take
protection.
their
against
testing
It
is
it;
any   more
speak
will   not   excuse
than
our
our
duty
silence
us,
out;
to
lords.   We
should
speak,
should
they
excuse
ignorance
secular
the
will
both   we   and
are   damned
consenting
they
to
for
tacitly
sin.
If   not,
act.
If   we
as   we
the   realm
Let
do
our
desire
value
eternal
us
duty,
bliss.
priests   who
those   bad
destroy
it   from
be
peace,
us
purify
at
all
to
let
to   be
good
There
advantage
considered.
temporal
the
also
therein.
is
acquired   possessions
Princes   have
the   unjustly
to   confiscate
the
right
all
and
as
cause
return
things
of   these
their
state,
to
to
heretics,
to
first
right   acquired   by
primitive   Church
they   were
If   the
of   Christ.
the
in
is   valid,   how   much   more   so   would   such   confiscation   be!   (pp.   6   —   8.)
conquest
long
baneful
simony,
so
But
impossible
as
extinguish
to
its
is
endowment   —
root   —
The
was
Church
allowed
exist.
to
e.
is
i.
changed
unendowed
endowment,
things
with
mighty,
whilst
all
and   new
became
and
worldly,
from
'Cesarean'
the
clergy,
Christian,
lavvs   were   made
extort   money   from   the
This   simony
is   rightly
to
faithful.
more
sodomy,
heinous
because
and
yet
called
spiritual,
spiritual
is
is   Avignon.   Some
secular   arm   destroys
Its   source
if   the
think
that
crime.
but
the   Church
of   wickedness,
purity;
will   return
its   pristine
nest
to
that
for   ever;
Wyclif   fears
like   Gehazi's
leprosy,
cling
to
that   the
will
evil,
it
8 —  9).
oue
source   being   stopped
another
spring
forth
up,
will
(pp.
last,   we   may   safely   predict   that   wars
and
So
fightings
long
as   they
cease.   War
every   where,
amongst
not
only
will   never
reigns
nations
in
friars   and   monks,   and
also-   amongst
Uni-
the
but
sphere,
secular
the
in
and
poor
to   pay
large   sums,
there
forced
scholars
are
vcrsities;
is
discord
cause
of   persons
these
things
acception
private
colleges.
All
in
dissensions.   Woe
the   man,
or
province
that
tries
the
the
nation,
to
aiul
