---
page: 27
pdf_page: 27
---
XXIII
INTRODUCTION.
men"
"Peace   on
simony!
defend
introduce
good-will
or
earth,
to
to
that   men   should   have   good-wiil   to   Christ;
and   Christ   hates   simony,
implies
by   His
is   proved
worse
conduct
simoniacs,
temple.
Besides,
as
the
in
sell   Him   again
and
than
not
again,
the
salvation
of
the
for
Iscariot,
of   their   own
for   the   damnation
and
they   devour   Christ
world,
but
souls;
9 —   12).
foully   by
most
crime
their
this
(pp.
No
is   more
directly   opposed
God's
"Freely
ye   have
law:
sin
to
mystic   Door,   which
says
received,
give,"
Christ
the
freely
Christ.
is
is
to   break   down
and   which
thieves   and
against   simony,
closed
strives
it
present   that   which   He
enter   by   stealth,
robbers
Christ
tolerating
the
for
will   most   severely
and   most
one
punish
for   simoniacs
too
day,
justly
true   God
idol,   money,
and   commit
in   His
the
sacrilege
sacrifice
their
to
themselves   would
which
very
presence,
the
do.
devils
fear
All
to
this
who
from
of   our
springs
such
blindness
the
tolerate
rulers,
things.
12—14).
(pp.
Wyclif
definition   and
Chapter
In
objections
against
refutes
his
II,
of   simony:
the   Decre-
l   rst
from
theory
that   given
Objection.
differs
in
It
one   who
2  nd
St.   Thomas.
and   approved   by
even
denies
to
tals,
It
is
to   how
and
ask
for   promotion,
creates
the
right
as
to
far
difficulties
fit,
a   man
is   bound
give   up
benefice   wrongly
and   whether
obtained,
to
to   Rome
or   may
we   may
go
ld
an
not
not
benefices.
for
act,
It
is
a   mere
which
and   be-
will   cannot   be;
heresy,
of   the
act
volition;
a   mere   privation.
being   an
Wyclif
whilst
sides,
positive,
sin
act,
is
is
it
defends
out
position
pointing
verbal
form,
scholastic
defects
his
in
first
emendi
vel   vendendi   aliquid   spirituale
"studiosa   voluntas
Decretal's
the
in
His   own
spirituali   annexum".
from   being
preserved
too
vel
definition
is
dealer   who   buys
the   word
wide,   by
every
or
sense,
In
'inordinata'.
may
The
be
anything
Apostles
simoniac.
fraudulently
called
sells
By
temporal
according
their   needs.
but
received
only
to
aid,
rule,
this
more
wants ;
he
or
accepts
than
takes
if   a
priest
really
for
living
he   commits   simony.   Such   men
which   he
are   not   even
not
priests.
is
fit,
A   man
in   whatever   he   does;
and
in   mortal   sin   sins   mortally
simoniacal
all   those   who   communicate
curse   both   on   himself   and   on
priest   brings
him.   How   then
Accurst   himself,   how
can   he   sanctify
he
with
can
others?
blessings.   —
bless?   God
If   we   know
a   man
to   be
curses
his
for
fit
we   may   labour
have
him
promoted,
for   then   our
benefice,
desire
to
is
If   we   have
not
but
unlawful   to
oneself   into
inordinate;
thrust
office.
is
it
