---
page: 28
pdf_page: 28
---
XXIV
INTRODUCTION.
are   bound
to   do   penance
any   benefice,
obtained
the
\ve
simoniacally
for
make
and
amends,
and
present
the
future
the
for
to
past,
strive
in
of   our   income
the   poor;
the
leaving
for
the
superfluity
unfit
to
office,
if
it.   We   may
the   work
we   must
a   bishop,
but
not
desire
resign
his
ot
to   Rome
nor   may   we   go
nor   any
to   get
sinecures   or   pluralities;
dignity,
benefices.   —
As
either   one
for   simony   being   an
not
desire,
act,
is
it
the   main
School;
of
according
the
or   both,
point
inordination
the
to
is
will.   And
heresy   by
simony
implies   wrongmindedness,
as
the
this   will
is
when
it   becomes
and
an
unlawful   bargain
implication;
explicitly
so,
is
The
un
observations
chapter
of
with
defended.
the
closes
difficulty
putting   down
simony
14
27).
(pp.
the   whole
of   the   most
perhaps   one
This
important
chapters
in
is
objections   propounded,   we
for,   by   Wyclifs   answer
work;
clearly
the
to
see   how   and
given   by
usual   one
in   what
from
the
definition
differs
his
theologians.   And
what
regular
doctrine
the
learn
interesting
as
to
is
it
St.   Thomas   (Sum.
I   may
here
of
following
give
abstract
short
is,
it,
of   Roman   Catholic
the   most
Th.   2   a
2   ae
trustworthy
divines.
qu.
as
100)
We
both   Aquinas
agree
and   Wyclif
heinous
see
the
as
that
to
shall
and
absolute
of   putting
character
the
necessity
of   the
with,
dealt
sin
it
when
comes
by
down,
strongest   measures.
even
the
But,
the
to
it
What
Wyclif,   by
goes
is   simony?
force
question:
the
of
his
definition,
yet   he
than   Aquinas
quotes
a   great
Decretals;
or
than
deal
the
farther
to   simony   understood
them
not
along
if   they   applied
sense,
as
in   his
all
theirs,   As
it   very   frequently   happens
his   definition   overlaps
the
other,
in
always.   By
curious
but   not
the   by,
application
to
that
his
right,
is
is
it
of   that   Holy
with   what
he
opinion
respect
aside
note
evident
the
sets
Doctor
because,
Possiblv
sancto
doctore,
himself,
like
(a
14).
is
p.
it
St.   Thomas
was
the   same
for   Wyclif
though
not
Realist;
extent,
to
was
his   whole
theological   system
above
but
and
a   philosopher
is
all,
St.   Thomas
outcome
philosophy.
as
the
of   his
But,
logical
fact,
is
as   to   Wyclifs
in   most   decided   opposition
him:
very
for   instance,
often
to
St.   Thomas
priest   no
a   bad
decides
longer.
doctrine
priest
that
is
even
has
immoral
degradation,
and
that   an
the
heretical
after
priest,
qu.   LXXXII)
that   wicked
power
of   saying   Mass
priests,
III   a
fpars
if
and
possess   proper   jurisdiction,
can
that   are
absolutions
give
they
valid,
because
do   so,
deprived
of
that   schismatics   and   heretics   only
to
tliat
fail
I   am
Suppl.   Sum.   Th.).   And
by
XIX,
tempted,
here
the
(qu
jurisdiction
