---
page: 29
pdf_page: 29
---
XXV
INTRODUCTION.
down
to   be
I   have
what
long
believed
that
true;
way,
nute
viz.,
to
a   deep   study   of   the   works
never   made
for   some   reason
or
olher,
Wyclif,
of   St.   Thomas.   He
least   by   name,
very   seldom   alludes
either
him,
at
to
when   he
does,
or
philosophical
theological
trealises;
is
his
his
in
it
in
with   much
but   with   no
(as   on
respect,
always
occasion)
present
the
and
the   argu-
was
he
acquainted
doctrine
with
the
evidence
well
that
ments   of   that   famous   Doctor.   To
vvho   knows
any   one
the   unique
position
St.   Thomas
both
amongst
held   by
Church,
Doctors
the
of   the
in
the
will   seem   more
down
Middle   Ages.
present
and
even
day,
the
this
to
not   see   how
it   was
I   do
possible
for
is   unaccountable.
strange;
than
it
a   man
or   knowing   much,
to   know
St.   Thomas,
such
to
of
either
little
him   when
from
agreement,
refrain   from
or
refuting
ar-
quoting
his
in
guments   when
his   own.
opposition
to
in
Simony,
deliberate
according
Doctor',
"Angelic
the
will
the
to
is
or   buy
or   connected
with
things.
anything
spiritual
spiritual
to
It
sell
that   such   purchase
or
because
sale
implies
heresy,
the
act
called
is
that   none   may   sell   what
they
reason
allowed.
forbidden,
the
for
is
It
is
property
their   own:
grace
and   God's
do
possess
not
the
as
really
is
of   God;   men
not   even
Priests   have
(of
right
the
only
are
channels.
its
their   own
the   Pope
another.   As
exchange   benefices
with   one
to
is
will)
owner,
it   follows
he
merely
that
not
of   Divine
grace,
the
distributor
its
comes
of   what
In   view
can
following
chapters,
incur   simony.
the
in
cannot   conceive
this   important   passage,   which
the   whole
transcribe
of
if   he   had   known
it.   "Papa
that   Wyclif   would   have
potest
left   unquoled,
alius   homo:
peccatum
enim
incurrere
simoniae,
vitium
quilibet
sicut
et
majorem
obtinet   locum.
persona
quanto
tanto
aliqua
gravius,
est
in
non
Quamvis
enim
dispensatoris,
Ecclesiae
res
principalis
ut
ejus,
sint
tamen
si   reciperet   pro   aliqua
Et   ideo,
ut   domini   et   possessoris.
sunt
ejus,
non
spirituali   pecuniam
de
careret
re
ecclesiae
redditibus
vitio
alicujus,
peccu-
Et   similiter   etiam   posset   simoniam
committere   recipiendo
simoniae.
a   2  ae
niam
non
ab
de
Ecclesiae"
C.
qu.
bonis
aliquo
art.
laico,
i.
(2
).   —
7   m
Ad
receive   any   money
(or   payment
of   any
not   allowed
to
It
is
the   Sacraments,
the
spiritual
for
the
administration
of
sort)
for
e.
i.
grace   which
of   the
sustentation
bodily
but
only
they
the
confer;
for
Rather
than
remuneration
and
trouble.
ministers
of   grace,
for   their
as
a   man
give   money
conferred   by
grace
Baptism,
instance,
for
for
the
and
God's
ought
desiring
grace,
to
without   baptism,
die
to
trusting
to
