---
page: 31
pdf_page: 31
---
XXVII
INTRODUCTION.
and   simony
are   merely
of   every
blasphemy,
aspects
apostasy,
different
backsliding   from   God;
Every
mortal
every
mortal
mortal
sin
sin.
is
evil   may   be   good;
a   blasphemous
wish
every
mortal
that
sin
sin
is
is
temporal   good   or
for   some
exchange
grace
of
an
inordinate
spiritual
is   simony
But
he
only
pleasure.
admits,
other;
the
as,
this,
in
g.
v.
is   more
called,   when
external   good,
widest
possible
sense.
so
strictly
It
justice   between   man   and   man,
and
are
in   question;
cheating
therefore
is
more
properly   simony
But
committed   in   the   strictest
than   other
sins.
is
it
when
more
all   by
is   necessary
possess
sense
they
than
of
clergy,
the
a   weakening
influence   and
their   maintenance:
of   the
for
spi-
for
this
is
ritual   power
good
otherwise   be
that   would
and
Church,
of   the
the
all
commodities.   And
done
as   no
thus   bartered
can
Catholic
earthly
for
is
deny
one
voluntary
poverty,
counsels
of
of   perfection,
three
the
that
would   be
the   clergy   from
great
gain
of   view,
the
point
spiritual
to
away
strictly   and
throwing
great
gain
of
called
logically
wilful
this
is
simony   by   Wyclif.
and
course
renders
a   mortal
of
such,
as
sin;
It
is
the   anathemas
of   the   Church.   But
of   the   Fathers
sinner   Hable
the
to
all
again   we   must   remember
here
speaking   of   simony,
speak-
that   Wyclif,
is
beyond
of   something
goes
even
which,
ing
sense,
far
strictest
in
its
defmition.   We
may
(though
here
regular
theological
the
includes)
it
the   way   how   much
notice   by
of   voluntary   poverty   amongst
idea
the
the
clergy   had   progressed   from
St.   Dominic   and
days
St.   Francis.
of
the
In
St.   Thomas
defend
obliged
half   of   the   XIII
the
century,
the
to
first
'   1
is
2   ac
Th.
poverty
2   a
of
Friars
absolute
right
the
qu.
to
live
(S.
in
CLXXXVII,
Utrum
and
liceat   de
eleemosynis
vivere,
religiosis
art.
4.
of   the   XIV th
Utrum
mendicare)
part
the
liceat
latter
in
art.
eis
5.
to   be
Wyclif   asserts
whole
duty
great
Surely
of   the
clergy.
the
this
change   had   come
over   Christendom
during
period.
that
in   general  —   setting
We   may   therefore   say
all   that   by
which
aside
many
of   simony
our
and
author
includes
of
actions
the
states
sin
in
which
most
off   from
other
theologians
declare
Christ's
to
at
life
fall
precepts   —
we
a   good
both
not   His
counsels,
the
deal
that
find
in
foregoing   and
chapters   which
remarkable
agree-
following
the
in
in
is
ment
of   the   Church.
with
the
rules
III.   The
the   Pope
commit   simony
whether
Chapter
can
question
is   answered
by
by
which
Wyclif
proves
strong
several
affirmative,
of   pomp
the   Pope   through
Decretals.   Simony
committed   by
and
love
is
