---
page: 32
pdf_page: 32
---
XXVIII
INTRODUCTION.
He
the   sake
worldly   power.
invents
unchristian
of   lucre;
for
traditions
he   promotes
reasons
curates
quite
irrelevant
for
to
his
spiritual
office,
to   meddle
him   from   any
which   indeed
debars
with
right
temporalities.
an   encroachment
on
all   patronage
duties   and
His
claim
the
rights
to
is
ought
which
resist.   Non-resident
Papal
King,
of   the
pre-
the
to
latter
account   draw
any   mcome.
on   no
Cure
should
sentees,
instance,
for
of
thing,   endowment   is
is   one
and
give   any   one
a   bene-
another;
souls
to
fice   by   which   he
usurp   what
income
rightly   belongs
gets   an
to
to
is
According
founder
King.
of   a
Decretals,
not
the
the
the
benefice,
to
the   Pope ;
all   patronage   was
the   patronage
has
of
and,
as
at
fact,
it;
the   hands
it   has   passed
the   Pope's
of   laymen.
hands,
into
in
If
first
it
is   by
a   pure
temporal
claim
acquisition.
that
to
illegal
fiction
It
is
goods   belonging
something   tempoial   but   connected
are
clergy
the
to
the   Pope
right   over   them.
Patronage
with
has
things
so
that
spiritual,
and
right   which
justly   belongs
laymen,
cannot
really
to
spiritual
is
pass   from   them   without   simony.
clergy   were
primitive   Church,
the
In   the
27 —   37).
appointed   by   popular
always
election
(pp.
the   Church   would   be   robbed.
En-
that,   under
said
lay
rule,
It
is
dowments,
would
indeed   be
they   imply
so
as
least
superfluity,
at
far
not   wrong
this   would
suppressed;
the   Church.
but
a   crime
take
to
It
is
away
the   Church
from
which   belongs
anything
no
but
lawfully;
to
it
heretic   may   be
of   what   be
one   doubts
that   an   Antipope   or
deprived
and   Wyclifs
wrongfully   possesses
possession
position
that
in
all
is,
Church,   beyond
and
the   bare
wrongful,
of   existence,
the
necessities
is
heretic.   Those   who
to   be
causes
give   such
possessor
simoniacal
the
excessive   endowments,
the   Church
and
rob
are
of
virtue,
real
its
its
may
no
what
before
matter
spoilers,
Paul,
be.
intention
their
St.
his
in   good
was
though
he
Church,
acted
conversion,
a   persecutor
of   the
faith.   The
now
Eucharist   and   sacramental
prevalent   about
heresies
the
gifts   made
of   endowments   and
confession
run
doctrine
with
the
parallel
decrees   would
find   thousands
Church.
Innocent
the
of   prelates
to
III's
is   more
an   endowed
ready
and
clergy
say
maintain
them,
that
to
to
one
of   our
because
disendowed,
than
perfect
of   the
necessities
times.
the   more
make   them
would
But
any
thousands
they
these
not
true;
37  —  40).
would
of   simony
taint   themselves
only
leprosy
with
the
(pp.
exaggerated
the   Pope's
simony
Chaptcr
Again,
IV.
there
in
is
He
no
supremacy.
has
of
claims
the
collation
universal
right
to
to
