---
page: 33
pdf_page: 33
---
XXIX
INTRODUCTION.
to   choose   Mathias,
to   St.   Peter
but
not   apply
the   Apostles
did
benefices;
evident   who
be   done   when
to   be
ought
drew
not
should
as
is
lots,
it
best   who
The
The
knows
can   serve
wants.
people,
chosen.
flock
its
to   be   present
the   election,   and
ought
St.   Jerome,
according
attest
at
to
either   God   appointed   by
is   and   who
who
not   worthy.
old
In
times,
is
now   we
people
but
candidate;
or
elected
the
the
interposition,
direct
the   Pope.   The   people
it   would   defend
is   so
appeal
blind
whilst
that
to
while   the   Pope
its   own   temporal   rights,
even   to   death,
it   calmly   stands   by,
to   things   spiritual.   What   he   wants,
takes   away
is   not   their   good,
rigbt
its
but   the   increase   of   his   own   temporal   sway   and   worldly   power   (pp.   40 — 44).
Kings,   wake   up
of   heresy.   Allow
shake
chains
Therefore,
off   the
to   go
the   fountain   head
great   school
not   your   liegemen
of   simony,
that
of   men   and   money.   Were
the   kingdom   both
devil,   which   exhausts
of   the
of   foemen
outbreak
an
of   leprosy
realm,
or
an
the
invasion
there
in
but   we
would
far   worse.
be
have   here
do
your
with
duty
clear:
to
Provide   good
the   kingdom;   be
appoint
theologians   throughout
careful
to
The   revenues
rendered
no
of   the
you.
secular
services
clerks
to
for
them
would
be
to   remunerate
by
taken
King,
the
clergy,
sufficient
traitors   who   say
Those
such
any
are
appointments.
without
that
this
would
than   such
be
the   Church
greater
possessions
taking
of
evil
they   need   not   be
Curses
and
simony;
for   excommunications,
feared.
as
(pp.   44 — 45).
cause
in   such
if   given
turn
blessings,
to
only   any   good
fittest   should   be   chosen;
not
every
the
In
election,
man
(as   some
bad
whoever
is   good;
but
not
the
best.
for
say),
is
man
And   any
in   which
not   chosen
best
dis-
unjust,
the
election
is
is
To
man
by   God,
and
and
allowed
reject   the
to
void.
null
is
fittest
standard,   we   go   lower
if   we
fall   away   from   His
oppose
God's
and
will;
chosen   by   God
a   man
Even
case
of
and   lower
the
(as
in
indefinitely.
This   man
right   have   we
is   good
Saul)   may   be   bad;   what
then
say:
to
sheer   presumption.   Therefore
enough,   and   ot   set   aside   a   better   one?
It
is
election   by
neither   have
of   pro-
has   no   weight
an
majority
bulls
at
all;
to   do
sin   even
to   any
one's
right   against
great
given
one.
vision,
It
is
And
spiritual   power
much   more
to   do   wrong.
conscience;
give
so
to
since   what   he
of   Simon
Magus,
a   worse
only
for   gain
than
that
sin
is
the   Pope
Whether
one
or   any
wanted
do
done.
else
actually
to
is
laid   down,
than   by
here
chooses
a   Bishop
otherwise
the
rule
is
it
a.
45 —   49).
grievous
sin
(pp.
