---
page: 34
pdf_page: 34
---
XXX
INTRODUCTION.
To
whether
to   be
ought
question
general
the
con-
elections
in
demned,
bearing   on
the   word,
Wyclif,
answers
several
after
distinctions
follow   mere   human
that   no
that   go   begond
or
elections
that
traditions,
condemning
But
from
he
are
such
Scripture,
abstains
lawful.
are
as
of   Holy
and
acknowledges
contained
the
Writ,
principles
implicitly
in
fit,   we
if   many   are
it   be   asked   why,
utility.   Should
are
obliged
their
to
choose   him   whom
is:   Because   we   ought
the   answer
choose   the
to
fittest,
God
and
has
chosen;
(equality   being
of
superiority
impossible)
fitness
by
known;
which
Divine
be
choice
sign
the
the
of
fitness,
is
is
it
The   Papal
under
understood,
circumstances
they
the
as
are.
election,
which   some   compare
is   by   no   means
God's
of   Moses,
appointment
to
case.   Moses   was
of   Christ,   and   the   Pope
type
is   only   Christ's
similar
as   he   follows   Him.   And
Vicar
if   he
let   him
imitate   Moses'
so
be,
in
far
and   we
the   70
let   him   be
conduct
in   choosing
like   Moses,
elders;
shall
obey   him
(pp.   49—54).
If   the   Pope
Chapter
has
reserve
the
the
right
for
V.
to
firstfruits
one
for   two
he
do
and
till   he
can
so
so
years;
takes
year,
on,
for
all
himself.   He   may
the   number
and
of   his
increase
give
cardinals
at
will,
them   any   number
like   manner.
obtained
of   benefices,
if   service
But,
in
when
be
should
inseparable   from
payment,
benefice
the
vacant,
is
And
the   Pope
to   pay
ought
can
separate
two,
these
nothing.
laity
if
that   we
have
without   payment,
can
then
service
clear
as
spiritual
is
it
it   was
were
which
Church,
This
of   the
the
times
early
better.
far
in
laid   on
great   and   heavy   burden
and
the   shoulders
they
of   seculars,
is
resist.   Pope   Gregory   X,   who,
gave
ought
of   Lyons,
Council
the
to
at
of   many
condemned
prescriptions   concerning
the   holding
the
also
tithes,
is   now
letter,   why
a   dead
should
benefices;
latter   prescription
if   the
the.
As
be
is   simony   on
former
obeyed?
part
of
giving
the
the
firstfruits
of   the   Pope:
their   acceptance   on
he
of   the
takes
so
part
the
giver,
is
priests   whom   he
them
because
and
he
promotes,
from
the
principally
the   whole.   He
promoted
Kings
he   takes
them.
take   a   fifteenth,
translates
number
on
bishops
purpose
from
of
greater
get
also,
to
firstfruits
If   we   say
universal   power
gives   him
the   Pope's
them.
the
right
to
that
we
These
government.
all   temporal
root
act
of
the
thus,
strike
at
under   John   XXII,
probably
never   before.
obtained
practices
St.
first
Louis
promotion
burned
the   Papal
of
certain
the
relative
to
bulls
archdeaconry
promoted
IV
that   Clement
(probably
priest
the
to
liim
