---
page: 35
pdf_page: 35
---
XXXI
INTRODUCTION.
and   means   Louis   VII.   See
unless   Wyclif   mistook
note,
of   Reims,
p.   58).
the   payment
but
of
is   pretended
free
that
this
firstfruits
gift,
is
is
It
explicit   compact.   Let
though
a   mere
not   an
there
pretence;
tacit,
is
will   soon
and
considered
he
see
presentee
pay,
refuse
the
to
is
if
it
being   made
the   payment
As
before
not
pro-
after,
free
as
to
gift.
St.   Thomas   con-
p.   XXIV;
that   makes   no   difference.
(See
above,
motion,
Gehazi   made   no   compact   with   Naaman
difference   to   be   great.)
the
siders
act   was
he   was
simoniacal
cured
yet
the
leprosy;
before
of
his
his
all
fallen   upon
fell   upon
leprosy
has
him;
and
so
same,
leprosy
spiritual
its   mystic   sense.   Leprosy   deforms
for   leprosy   means   simony   in
the   Popes;
is   most
and
causes
leper
the   body,
the
infectious,
the
stinks
nostrils,
in
other   men:
to   be   separated   from
are
these
characteristics
in
fulfilled
all
(pp.   54 — 62).
simony
long   been   rampant
Simony
in   England.
patronage
has
as
to
It
is
amounts
which
of   the   Pope's
defended   under
authority;
pretext
to
the
and   we   have
it   up
Paul   withstood
Peter;
of
against
Christ.
setting
that
No
man
the   Pope
above
him
can
put
withstand
the
right
in
to
this.
indeed   be   obeyed;
Gospel   Law.
he   should
as   he
follows
In   so
far
it,
farther.   Any   permission
given   by   him   to
a   dead
but   no
transgress
is
it,
a   dead   man
is   no   more
a   man.
In   such
and
a   permission   than
is
letter,
himself   should   make
the   wrong;
the   Pope
being,
satisfaction,
in
cases,
ought,   whether
follow   him   in
all   Christendom,   being   obliged
and
to
this,
to   do
reprobate   and
such
Failing
he
does
practices.
or
resist
not,
to
the   Pope.   How
it   would   be
glorious
together   with
punished,
so,
is
it
if   our   Pope   Urban   VI   would
ancient
return
the   Church,
the
to
state,
for
of   Urban
it   was
grievous   heresy
days
that
affirm
to
in   the
as
is
I!
It
whom
the   Pope
Paul
whatever
allowed;
resisted
allows
Peter,
for
is
of   one   venial
face,   had   no   power
the   commission   even
allow
to
to
his
any   Pope
no   more   has
His
are
our
dispensations
valid
times.
sin:
in
as   God
which
and
heresy
grants   them
him;
with
the
only
so
far
in
it.   —
Here   comes
many
the
others
contrary
brings
after
the
affirms
Eucharist
two
second   and
the
the   longer
digressions
to
relative
of   the
(pp.   62—70).
VI.   A   Bishop   may
if   he
rather
takes
simony,
Chapter
incur
office
a   view
which
than
with
dignity   and
accrue
him,
to
the
for
profit
will
his   own
during
Also
episco-
soul   and
Church.
both
his
the
benefit
to
himself   and   on
on
superfluous
if   he
if   he
neglect   his
lavish
pate,
duties,
