---
page: 37
pdf_page: 37
---
XXXIII
INTRODUGTION.
their   own
come
ordination   seldom
him
or   never
presents
of
for
to
offer
be   made.
accord;
Decretals
allow
are
yet
the
that
free
to
gifts
If
all
we   have
ample
the   buying
be
an
excuse
then
these
called
for
free,
that   would   imply
and
the   purchase
of   the   tem-
only
of   benefices;
selling
But   by
and
to   them,
the   use
poral
of   the
attached
temporalities.
profit
forbidden.   —
The
the   law
such
Church,
Bishop's
of   the
traffic
all
is
to   buy   their
confessions   and   baptisms
are
are
said
too,
officers,
offices;
for   by
and   the   Bishop,
paid
of   the   law;
clever   evasion
living
in
state,
having   grooms   who
horses,   and   servants   kept   with
tend   unnecessary
the
makes   money
property
simoniacal
poor,
himself
with
thus
of
the
for
As
he
greed.
very
of   the
cares
the
side
for
spiritual
result,
little
matter.   The
the   god
of   such   aBishop!
It   would
not   God,
and
world,
is
be
for   him
the   bare   necessaries
have
nothing   but
of
better
far
to
life
the   means   of   luxury   from
him,   would   be   doing
rulers,   by   taking
and
our
a   good
inculcated   by   Canon
Poverty
pre-
allows
only
deed.
law:
is
it
exacted.   We   should
indeed
those
help
nearest
not
sents
freely   given,
to
relieve   them
but
our
(and
only
the   Bishop,
of   such)
us
pastor,
as
to
is
it.   And
when
in   need
dignity   does   not
they
stand
episcopal
require
the
more
pomp,
outward
and
any
Apostles
His
than
of   Christ
of
that
(pp.   78-84)-
endowed
Simony
aimed
Orders.
Chapter
reigns
the
VII,
at
is
and
amongst   them
Order,
during
entrance
the
their
stay,
their
into
at
to   Abbeys
become
given
of   parishes
egress
curates
at
their
to
(v.
g.
appropriation).   A   richer   man
accepted   more
a   poorer
by
readily   than
is
the   latter   may   be
two.   Here   Wyclif   assails
though
of   the
the   better
one,
by
from
Mr.
which
appears
system
notice
of
the
corrodies,
(as
was
the   Addenda)
a   system
quoted
Matthew,
of
either
life-annuities,
in
certain   sum
in   money
or   possession
given
or
return
kind,
for
in
in
made
doubt
the   Order
Wyclif   observes
of
over
implies
that
to
it
who   wants
give   up
Christ's   words   on
of   him
property,
part
his
the
to
Then,
assured   means
of   having   no
instead
of   subsistence.
but
afraid
is
(or   monastery's)   income,
of   the   Abbey's
of   the   poor
the   surplus
getting
rich.   This   may
go
to   be   given
the
so
(and   does)
that
it   has
the
far,
to
and
to   pay
whole   income
the
corrodies,
the
barely
often
sufficient
is
convents   might
bargains   be
monastery
allowed,
If   such
ruined.
itself
is
make   any
other   pre-
either   with   Bishops
or
other   bargains
they
chose,
bought
be
As
no
should
for
Boniface
says,
spiritual
gift
lates.
St.
