---
page: 38
pdf_page: 38
---
XXXIV
INTRODUCTION.
an   Order
by
money;
purchase
and
ingress
therefore
into
illegal,
is
The   money
worse.
purely   temporal
are
not
paid
corrodies
still
is
diminishes,   by
taken   from
the   poor;
If   superfluous,
if   not,
thing.
is
it
it
of   monks   who   might
so   much
number
the   mo-
the
paid,
as
in
live
is
suffer.   The   system
religious   house
suffers   from   want,
If   a
nastery.
let
it
of   corrodies   might   soon   bring
it   could   no
to   such   a
longer
that
state
it
And
is   founded   upon
pay
and
such
them.
bargain,
the
as
sin,
is,
it
of   the   abbey
is   bound
and   void:
consequently
the   patron
annul
null
to
the   buyer   has   no
Wyclif   then
whatever.
so
security
out
points
that
it,
an   Order   with
that   simony
on
incurred
entering
ambitious
or
views,
is
comfortable   and
advantage
anything
of
or
the
quiet
better
for
life,
(pp.   84   —   88).
could   be   expected
than
secular
state
in
committed   by   monks
Simony
life,   by   ob-
often
daily
their
in
is
and   also   by   appro-
alms   from   temporal
as   perpetual
funds
taining
lords,
their   own
promoting   members
the   incomes
parishes
of
priating
use,
to
of   their   own
robbery
orders
parish
secular
of   the
as
priests.
It
is
The
for   money.
•   perfection
of   the
clergy.
sold
religious
thus
state
It
is
the   Pope   and
in   want
a   shameless
pretend
clergy   are
the
to
that
is
lie
member   a   thousand
would
revenue
each
marks   on   an   average   1   —
of
give
calculation
their
or
such
say
appropriations
are
that
for
to
They   pay
good
the   Pope
because
Church,
permits
them.
of
the
the
money
the   King   and
and
obtain   such
appropriations
others
thus
to
to
we
a   body   which
naming
one
has
of   perpetually
of
the
right
find
its
own   members
spiritual   charge.   Those   who
acquiesce
allow
to
in
this,
whom.
no
anybody,
nomination
indeed
of
matter
the
Christ
future
reason   why   we
is   no
but
consent
should
tolerated
the
Iscariot;
that
to
By
considerable   sum
of   possible   bad
promotion
system,
priests.
this
of   money
which
Bishop
and
is   rank
Chapter:
given
annually
the
to
is
And
where
the   Abbots
is   no
having
simony.
appropriation,
re-
there
the   patronage
have
of   churches
from
temporal
ceived
the
lords,
filled
who
them
have
pensions
granted
with
gratitude
creatures,
their
in
(pp.   88 —   93).
the   Abbey
to
text   here.   The   mark   was   worth
suspect
slight   mistake
there
in   the
is
from   £   700
The   averagc
d.   which   would   be
s.   4
in   our   time.
not
clergy-
i3
far
man   would
if   we
consider   the   purchasing   powcr   of
then   have   been
millionnaire;
the   mark
thosc
davs.
in
