---
page: 39
pdf_page: 39
---
XXXV
INTRODUCTION.
The
There
remedies
though
abuse.
are
Pope,
three
for
this
it
cannot   be
of   him,   might
a   thorough
expected
reform;
secular
the
effect
power   might
the   endowments;
take   back
is   most
people
or
(which
the
might   withdraw
and
of   the   Colleges
Instead
their
offerings.
tithes
likely)
would
being
destroyed,
they
patronage
thereby;
profit
the
of   the
for
them.   —   There
would
be
maintain
pay-
are
livings
sufficient
to
also
made
laymen
ments
defending
monasteries,
the
for
to
whilst
the
and
in   luxury
extravagance.
not
prelates
said
thus
live
that,
It
is
if
would
laymen
convents
But
income.
despoil
the
paid,
the
of
their
may
good
amount
payments
doing
such
and
come,
that
to
that
evil
We
may   not   commit
by
Church.
forbidden
the
the
slightest
sin,
is
whole   world;
and
houses   were
even
save
even
the
religious
if   the
to
the   monks
result   would
be
and
only
property
the
dissolved,
that
their
more
would
be
everywhere
spread
about
do
and
world,
the
in
If   we
want
good.
a   monastic
lead
let   us
the
to
desert,
flee
to
life,
laymen
and
from
proper
not
towns,
ousting
functions
their
live
in
(pp.   93-9   8   ^-
lords   and
Chapter   VIII
the   temporal
other
levelled
classes
at
is
all
of   men   who
begins   by
Wyclif
simony.
are
with
positing
tainted
as
who
man
any
to   simony
consents
responsible
principle
that
the
for
is
Rulers   may   be
of   what   simony
same.
and
consent
ignorant
in   igno-
is,
to   know.   Now
rance
but
their   business
consent
implied,
either
is
is
it
by
by
by
any
defending
deed,
contributing
advising
actively
to
it,
it,
passive.   And   most   Friars
by
or   even   by
remaining
allowing
consent
it,
the   last   way.   We   must   not   await
simony
the   decision
of   the
courts
to
in
man
may   be
law
consider   any
court   judgments
simoniac
of
as
to
a   judge   may   also   be   infected   with   simony,
thus   becoming
and
purchased,
a   judge   should   have
incompetent
to   judge.
the
requi-
essential
that
It
is
power,
knowledge,
and
goodness.
conscientiousness,
'   qualities
site
If
condemn
condemns
he
he
only
himself
others,
as
whilst
not,
will
judges.   We
to   obey
but
those
obliged
are
did
authority,
Christ's
in
We
when
and
have
they
only
are
reason,
the
freewill
right.
in
pastors   whom
The
us   by   God.
rise   up
people
ought
given
against
to
they   know
to   be
they   would
set   over   them
the   sake
oflucre;
for
idiots
have   Canon   law
As
if   an   incumbent
died
things
favour.
stand,
their
in
the   Papal
course
of   the   first   year
regularly
of   possession,
the
collec-
in
or   would
the   whole;
and
not
but
only
benefice,
part
the
take,
of
if
C*
