---
page: 40
pdf_page: 40
---
XXXVI
INTRODUCTION.
how
are   we
to   know   whcre
the   Pope   may
any
abrogate
he
law,
will
98 —  104).
stop?   These
to   be
ought   not
tolerated
collectors
(pp.
What   should   be   done
the   Old   Law,
they   were
simoniacs?
In
to
Christians.   As
the   New,
be   shunned   by
are
they
death;
put
to
in
to
all
if   known
is,   howe-
such.   This
are   excommunicated,
they
as
vice
fact,
we
cannot
off   from
ourselves
prevalent
so
cut
the
entirely
that
ver,
enough
from
separate
but
ourselves
of   simoniacs;
society
to
all
is
it
104 —   105).   Here   Wyclif
is   more
with   simony
itself   (pp.
fellowship
leni-
of   Rome,
it   would   seem
the   Church
and
even
than
as
sight,
at   first
ent,
quotes:   "Nec   ave
of   St.   John   which   he
If   a
than
the
dixeritis."
text
ei
we
man
be
excommunicated,
he
should
share
avoided,
in
his
lest
is
of   Wyclifs
But
prevents
the   width
wickedness.
practically
definition
his
law.   On
extent   intended   by   Church
following   up
conclusion
the
to
his
he   was
view
general
of   the   best
other   hand,
point
able
the
the
to
to
his   own
man
must   follow
every
of   simony,
case
theologians,
that
in
conscience   and   certain   knowledge,
and
does   not
await   a   legal
require
to
St.   Thomas'
decision.   See
above,
exposition
of
the
doctrine.
in
We   must   obey   God
than   man.   Monks   ought
refuse   their
rather
to
commanded   by
their   Supe-
though
even
appropriations,
getting
aid
in
even   when
allowed   by
the   Pope.
excuse
and
false
riors,
It
is
is
it
that   a   Friar
say
in   inveighing
remissness
against
to
his
in
this
for
evil,
When   he   knows
meddle
such
has
with
not
convent
questions.
that
to
them.   Some   leave
the   wrong,
should   reprove
appro-
he
the
they
are
in
to   be
burdened
order
not
secular
churches
with
priated
vicars,
to
in
may
not   be
which
At
but
benefice
set
aside.
duties
duties
entails
their   own   persons
the   Day
will   be   responsible
of   Judgment,
they
for
in
at   best   be   buying
would
services;
the
besides,
vicar's
souls
this
lost;
Church   may
by
which
do   anything
and   no
one
has
the
right
to
The
was
which
never
so
preaching,
of
detriment.
too,
oflice
suffer
falls   upon
as   now,   would
This
and
duty
necessary
thereby.
suffer
all;
the   Pope   and
the   more
both
higher
the
duty,
for
rank,
the
the
strict
parish   may   be   given
Bishops.   Wyclif   admits
of   a
the   superfluity
that
for
105 —  109).
only   by
away,
givers
but
of   the
the
free
will
(pp.
One
it   would
to   be   that
extreme   conclusion   of
this   doctrine
is   said,
by
are   performed
Church
simoniacs.
render
since
invalid,
rites
all
all
ipso   facto   suspended   from
But
they
are
their   office,
as
the
fact
that,
is
and
the   Church
ceased
it   would   be
if   they
gain
minister,
to
for
is
it
