---
page: 0
pdf_page: 41
---
XXXVII
INTRODUCTION.
Church
have
simoniacs
not
celebrate
law
right
the
the
to
of
that
all   Masses   have
Mass
say
(cantare   missam).
therefore
that
false
to
It
is
worth.   A
simoniacal   Bishop   blasphemes
every   one
of   the
func-
equal
in
tions   which   he   seems
perform.
consecrations,
ordinations,
Blessings,
to
They
invalid   from
ana-
are
their   hands.
equally
are
confirmations,
all
others?   A   Bishop
thema;   how
consecrated
can
with
they
the
sanctify
is
soul.   He
gives   gold   and
he
of   simony:
consecrates   others
loses
his
taint
leprosy.   There
therefore   no
gold   and
they
receive
simoniacally;
give
is
subjection   between   such
a   Bishop
and
order
of   hierarchical
essential
his
and   when   He
to   make
ordains   whom,
how,
but
chooses,
clergy;
Christ
is   wanting.   We   do
rites   He   consecrated
not   know   with   what
good   what
This
of   externals.   Wyclif   concludes
His
teaches   us   to   think
apostles.
little
109   —   113)-
by   repeating   once   more
to   the   secular   power   (pp.
appeal
his
tractate   De   Simonia.
the   work
Such
substance,
of
the
in
It
is
is,
a   powerful   and
from
premises
mind,
certain
logical
travelling
fixed
to
which
If   those   premises
from
conclusions
them.
are
flow
necessarily
the   same
inferences   must   be
admitted,
granted.
the
there
time,
But,
at
that   many
of   Wyclif  s
is   no
doubt
without   following   him
contemporaries,
were
grant
existence
multitude
of   a
willing
the
theories,
his
to
in
all
this   book   had
for   them
and
of   abuses
Church;
the   advantage
the
of
in
drawing
is   no
that   any
evidence
attention
the
there
their
to
evil.
Still,
the   Church
reforms   sprang
of   England   on
up
account
within
of
lasting
The
Wyclifs
Such
as   were
reason
not
tractate.
find
to
out.
difficult
is
were   no
doubt   amongst
in   favour
abuses
of   reforming
best   of   the
the
that   were
were
and
the   worst
clergy
those
reform
against
the
all
what
always
both
could
considered
great
point
parties
as
latter
to
and
(lf   any
exaggerations,
say
paralyze
thus
the
the
to
to
efforts
least,
Few
were
made)
indeed
Catholic   Bishops
of
or
party
of   reform.
the
to   be
unjustly,   amongst   Wyclifs
cared
even
adherents;
counted,
priests
men   were
and
of   moderately-thinking
majority
the
unwilling
naturally
to
movement   otherwise
at   any
look
distrust   and
such
than
with
suspicion.
of   De   Simonia
As
of   course
along
the
with
(taken
of
influence
for
that
Wyclif  s
works
the   same
on
other
dealing
with
opinion
public
subject)
it   seems   no
of   the   ranks
exaggeration
to   say
outside
of   the
clergy,
that
it   prepared
and   facilitated
which,   two   centuries
great   eataclvsm
the
later,
swept   away
the   monastic   houses
and
in   England,
put   such
great
part
of   the   Church
the   hands
revenues
of   the
'temporal   lords\
into
