---
page: 9
pdf_page: 9
---
INTRODUCTION.
I.   Preliminary.
The
but
Habent
only
sita   fata
applies
also,
saying,
libelli,
trite
it   has   been
De
because
long
Simonia,
unfavourably
of
edition
to
this
my
delayed   by
of   untoward
since
circumstances;
so
that,
first
series
good   many
had
ba-
have
years
elapsed.
work,
undertaking
the
upon
when
was
done
manuscript
copying
called
to
the
text
rely
of   another   most   important   work.
hovvever,
the   immediate   editing
begin
I,
of   De   Simonia,
though
most
the   manuscripts
succeeded
of
collating
in
and
the   work   went   on
and
frequent
interruptions;
with
at
last
slowly,
were
corrected   and
text   was
and
the   whole
proofs
the
up,
of   the
set
which
sorely
delays
necessary
properly
notes,
supplied
after
the
with
of   the   Founder
of   the   Wyclif   Society,
Dr.
Furnivall,
patience
the
tried
point   —
The   most
important
and
editor
himself.
of   the
of   the
printer,
to   overcome   —
was
obstacles   were
out
carry
hardest
and
here
to
the
the   recognized
in   accordance
principles
with
the   undertaking
thoroughly,
be.   When
a   good
of   what
of
at   length
should
spite
scholarly
in
edition
of  my   labours   had   been
the   numerous   interruptions   the   most   essential   part
a   close,   when   the   greatest   difficulties   had   been
and
overcome,
brought
to
nothing   remained   unfmished   but   the   Introduction,   the   Index,   and   the   Addenda,
entering   a   new   sphere
called   away   from   Vienna   to
I   was
Czernowitz,
thus
ofactivity   which   claimed   the   whole   of  my   time,   andleftme   no   hope   of   putting
to   my   work.   Mr.   M.   H.
kindly   promised
Dziewicki   then
last   hand
the
to
and   only   asked   me
I   was   obliged   to   leave   undone,
undertake   what
the
for
manuscripts   employed
and
necessary
of
description
the
in
classification
But   when
I   found
set   myself
task,
construction
of   the
the
to
this
text.
I   had   not
occurred,   which
another   misfortune   had
the
foreseen.
All
that
of   my   change
in   consequence
taken   on   the   subject   had   been   mislaid
notes
